

Summary of your 'study carrel'
==============================

This is a summary of your Distant Reader 'study carrel'.

The Distant Reader harvested & cached your content into a
collection/corpus. It then applied sets of natural language
processing and text mining against the collection. The results of
this process was reduced to a database file -- a 'study carrel'.
The study carrel can then be queried, thus bringing light
specific characteristics for your collection. These
characteristics can help you summarize the collection as well as
enumerate things you might want to investigate more closely.

This report is a terse narrative report, and when processing 
is complete you will be linked to a more complete narrative
report. 

                               Eric Lease Morgan <emorgan@nd.edu>


Number of items in the collection; 'How big is my corpus?'
----------------------------------------------------------
469


Average length of all items measured in words; "More or less, how big is each item?"
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
11746


Average readability score of all items (0 = difficult; 100 = easy)
------------------------------------------------------------------
92


Top 50 statistically significant keywords; "What is my collection about?"
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
74	like
55	music
55	Schmidt
54	Member
46	Mao
37	Warren
34	Chairman
29	Janson
28	Burns
26	record
26	New
21	thing
18	Martin
16	Torsten
14	Dwyer
13	TORSTEN
13	Detroit
13	Berlin
12	York
12	Bächer
10	JEFF
10	Emma
9	people
9	Mistry
9	London
8	Nick
8	CHAIRMAN
7	schmidt
6	sound
6	Ravens
6	NICK
6	MAO
6	James
6	Jamaica
6	Host
6	Gonsher
6	Brian
6	Bortot
5	work
5	audience
5	Todd
5	Moog
5	Kakaire
5	John
5	Jay
5	Gerd
5	Davide
5	Bob
4	emma
4	WARREN


Top 50 lemmatized nouns; "What is discussed?"
---------------------------------------------
29567	music
23057	thing
20969	people
18255	time
16065	record
14197	lot
13125	something
10619	way
10499	song
9808	stuff
8204	year
8041	guy
7612	track
6824	sound
6774	audience
6270	bit
6149	album
6105	day
5703	kind
4941	studio
4690	everything
4598	band
4555	artist
4528	one
4349	part
4281	point
4130	label
4064	idea
3777	club
3588	man
3493	question
3462	world
3311	place
3236	anything
3063	everybody
3046	beat
2994	dj
2923	money
2886	name
2876	life
2871	hip
2870	producer
2782	hop
2764	work
2764	drum
2760	someone
2745	house
2631	show
2631	friend
2567	musician


Top 50 proper nouns; "What are the names of persons or places?"
--------------------------------------------------------------
4174	Schmidt
4150	Member
4069	Torsten
3748	Jeff
3278	Mao
3025	New
2799	DJ
2678	Emma
2677	Warren
2332	York
2295	Chairman
2240	Todd
2219	B
2145	Yeah
2054	Gerd
2031	Janson
1954	Burns
1854	Benji
1746	L.
1493	London
1382	Martin
1325	Nick
1209	Dwyer
1173	James
1071	Detroit
1056	Lauren
1050	Music
1038	Brian
1030	Red
991	John
950	David
880	UK
867	America
864	Hanna
860	Tony
857	Berlin
850	Bächer
833	Brown
830	Yo
827	Jay
805	Bull
804	techno
770	TORSTEN
761	JEFF
751	Records
748	DJing
737	God
728	Robert
702	Chicago
696	Academy


Top 50 personal pronouns nouns; "To whom are things referred?"
-------------------------------------------------------------
182532	i
136358	it
125207	you
52594	we
31942	they
30398	he
22979	me
11101	them
6941	us
6553	him
4647	she
3177	’s
2185	myself
1832	yourself
1164	her
581	itself
521	themselves
397	y’
351	ourselves
349	himself
338	mine
194	one
177	yours
97	''s
88	em
83	ours
67	’em
57	his
45	ya
42	theirs
36	herself
13	yourselves
12	''em
10	hers
9	u
7	oneself
6	ya’ll
6	theyself
6	handclaps
5	y''
5	ourself
3	’d
3	themself
3	huh
2	tiga
2	thee
2	my
2	ian
2	hi-
2	ha


Top 50 lemmatized verbs; "What do things do?"
---------------------------------------------
257600	be
86370	do
71761	have
71444	’
36045	go
32366	get
26678	know
23134	think
21672	say
20519	make
19131	play
17916	come
16735	want
10980	work
10125	start
9826	use
9520	see
9061	take
9031	hear
7975	call
7458	put
7402	mean
7312	try
6845	talk
6785	like
6673	feel
6594	listen
5674	look
5631	happen
5598	give
5390	tell
5193	let
5006	find
4657	sound
4214	need
3865	write
3598	love
3350	become
3300	keep
3260	record
3249	ask
3215	remember
3112	bring
2795	change
2750	live
2716	learn
2687	guess
2552	’d
2534	move
2439	meet


Top 50 lemmatized adjectives and adverbs; "How are things described?"
---------------------------------------------------------------------
64719	not
35202	just
28768	so
20943	really
17535	then
15386	up
14627	out
13293	very
11491	there
11290	more
10683	now
10474	good
9932	first
8551	of
8408	back
8368	different
8316	other
7535	right
7414	much
7394	here
7388	little
7324	actually
6699	also
6692	well
6603	always
6453	on
6386	even
6234	as
6080	big
5940	kind
5679	still
5619	same
5417	in
5358	maybe
5125	great
5056	never
4713	too
4564	only
4342	down
4322	whole
4218	new
3983	many
3965	own
3747	all
3630	together
3542	old
3435	long
3432	most
3235	again
3094	probably


Top 50 lemmatized superlative adjectives; "How are things described to the extreme?"
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
1980	good
1631	most
734	least
641	big
380	Most
331	great
176	bad
120	late
91	hard
67	close
57	high
55	hot
50	long
49	early
47	cool
46	crazy
45	old
43	easy
34	young
34	fine
30	new
29	large
26	weird
26	strong
26	small
22	simple
22	low
20	badd
19	loud
19	happy
16	deep
15	rainfor
14	funky
14	fast
13	ill
12	short
12	nice
10	smart
10	pure
10	dop
10	cheap
9	furth
8	heavy
8	full
8	fresh
7	weak
7	quick
7	proud
7	funny
6	’d


Top 50 lemmatized superlative adverbs; "How do things do to the extreme?"
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1801	most
134	least
112	well
8	hard
4	worst
3	long
2	lowest
2	biggest
1	qu’est
1	nicest
1	highest
1	fast
1	easiest


Top 50 Internet domains; "What Webbed places are alluded to in this corpus?"
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
3	daily.redbullmusicacademy.com
1	en.wikipedia.org


Top 50 URLs; "What is hyperlinked from this corpus?"
----------------------------------------------------
1	http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ArtistsUnitedAgainst_Apartheid
1	http://daily.redbullmusicacademy.com/2017/08/schoolhouse-rock-and-hip-hop]
1	http://daily.redbullmusicacademy.com/2016/02/dilla-life-is-a-donut-feature]
1	http://daily.redbullmusicacademy.com/2015/06/lyricist-lounge-oral-history]


Top 50 email addresses; "Who are you gonna call?"
-------------------------------------------------
1	mrchuck@rapstation.com
1	moises_h@hotmail.com
1	bernardpurdie@aol.com
1	sounwave@hotmail.com


Top 50 positive assertions; "What sentences are in the shape of noun-verb-noun?"
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
298	people do n’t
89	people did n’t
76	record came out
69	things going on
60	guy called gerald
51	album came out
48	stuff going on
42	thing going on
37	people are just
34	music is very
31	people are n’t
30	lot going on
29	guys do n’t
29	people are not
28	music is so
28	people are really
26	people were n’t
25	music does n’t
24	music is not
24	music was n’t
23	music is n’t
23	something going on
21	music is just
20	people are still
18	guys are familiar
17	music is really
17	music is something
17	music was not
17	music was so
17	people making music
16	music is music
16	music was just
16	music was very
16	one was really
16	people come in
16	song came out
15	everything is so
15	people are so
15	people were just
15	sounds like something
15	stuff is very
14	artists do n’t
14	music coming out
14	music is always
14	music is still
14	people are more
14	people are very
14	people were still
14	time went on
13	everything is very


Top 50 negative assertions; "What sentences are in the shape of noun-verb-no|not-noun?"
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2	music is not always
2	music is not only
2	music is not so
2	music is not very
2	something ’s not right
2	sound is not that
2	thing is not really
2	things are not really
1	album is not hard
1	album is not just
1	album is not online
1	album is not out
1	album was not even
1	album was not really
1	album was not so
1	artist is not really
1	artists do not even
1	artists had no choice
1	audience takes no part
1	band did no sound
1	band had no idea
1	band is not as
1	band was not fantastic
1	band were not so
1	day has no start
1	days is not that
1	everything is not copasetic
1	guy is not cool
1	guy is not just
1	guy ’s not even
1	guys are no longer
1	guys are not hipster
1	guys are not huge
1	guys are not interested
1	guys are not really
1	guys did not just
1	label had no idea
1	labels were not really
1	music has no character
1	music has no drums
1	music has no feeling
1	music has no right
1	music has not always
1	music is no good
1	music is no longer
1	music is not entertainment
1	music is not exactly
1	music is not important
1	music is not just
1	music is not really


A rudimentary bibliography
--------------------------
      id = a-guy-called-gerald-ring-gerald
  author = 
   title = a-guy-called-gerald-ring-gerald
    date = 
keywords = Gerald; Haçienda; Manchester; Schmidt
 summary = To be at that time now where you can basically just duplicate the actual effects that you''ve got – I mean, I''m sounding like a caveman I know now, but for me it''s still amazing the things you can utilize in the software now. And in an interview, you guys mentioned like, yeah, some weird three-digit numbered machines, and there''s a young boy in Germany thinking, "OK, this sounds unlike anything else that I ever heard before, so apparently it has to do something with these weird things." I tried to search them out, and obviously, all the music stores in the greater vicinity didn''t have them, so I traveled to the big city and go to the music store and go, "Would you gentlemen maybe stock an 808?" They''d just be looking at you and totally burst out laughing and go, "No, we sold the rest of them seven, eight years ago.

      id = addison-groove-lecture
  author = 
   title = addison-groove-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Addison; Groove; Warren; play
 summary = In this talk at the 2011 Red Bull Music Academy, he traces his history from old Fantazia tape packs through dubstep''s inspirational early days up to his obsession with Chicago footwork and his new love of Angola''s ''70 sounds. I guess I''m thinking of the relationships you''ve got with people like Loefah or Martyn, I want to hear a new Headhunter track, but before we play that one, you a small scene and you''ve got a track that a lot of people would like to hear, People''s albums come out and I like this track because I played it, but different music, but when you talk to people about liking, say, So like that track I just played, I know that''s gonna go off in a club. like playing people''s music in a club, I like mixing. When you play their music in clubs it sounds really good.

      id = adrian-sherwood-original-mixologist
  author = 
   title = adrian-sherwood-original-mixologist
    date = 
keywords = reggae
 summary = 

      id = aisha-devi
  author = 
   title = aisha-devi
    date = 
keywords = Devi; Ravens; music
 summary = So that you maybe have seen some images of a frequency that is able to levitate things and I think that we are actually able to produce this kind of sound with our body, our voice and with specific frequencies from the computer. And I think that pop music actually is very submissive to our human condition that we have to stay in the 3D, but electronic music actually goes elsewhere and we can experiment with this and it''s very empowering for me to use these techniques because I can feel the reaction when I''m playing live and I have actually different little tricks to produce this kind of altered state of consciousness and I apply that to the music and also the voice. I''m producing also music to put you in a certain state with your brain, and my voice will actually act as a kind of a shamanic guide, as if you take ayahuasca and you need a little bit of light to guide you through the trip.

      id = alec-empire-lecture
  author = 
   title = alec-empire-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Alec; Berlin; Bächer; Empire; Germany
 summary = The thing was that, let''s say Underground Resistance, Jeff Mills, all these guys, they were not what you would consider mainstream techno a few years later, because nobody cared about that music in America, so it was this weird, almost mistake of nature or evolution, I don''t know, that there is the place, Berlin, the Wall is coming down, at some point there was this open space. So, the video we watched in the beginning, and you speaking about the techno scene and Tresor – I think to a lot of people, either from a perspective of not coming from Berlin or from a perspective of knowing the music scene nowadays, thinking about punk and squats being very political, and techno being one thing that is [not political]... The weird thing is, if you look at certain footage of raves, a little bit later in the ''90s, we always call it "marching music" because a lot of people dance almost like the same way.

      id = alex-barck-jazzy-sensation
  author = 
   title = alex-barck-jazzy-sensation
    date = 
keywords = Barck; Berlin; Jazzanova
 summary = We started a DJ team and we thought, "OK, what do we play?" And it''s obviously everything "jazzy" and I found a record on an old German label called Jazzanova, so we thought, ''It''s not such a bad name.'' And obviously, like many people who are not into jazz would say, "No, I don''t listen to this kind of music." Like back in the day, I combined a hip-hop track with a funk track, soul, disco, then I was into house and it was all hopefully possible to follow – not always probably… But it changed when I see myself now as a DJ, I''m standing in the club and I''ve learned about the dynamics of how people listen to music and how they dance to it, and I try to keep it a bit more steady nowadays, but at the same time play the music which creates the same feeling – going from here to there.

      id = alex-rosner-systematic-sound
  author = 
   title = alex-rosner-systematic-sound
    date = 
keywords = loudspeaker; room; sound
 summary = Alex Rosner has plenty of tricks for people interested in clear, loin-vibrating sound reproduction in this lecture from the 2003 Red Bull Music Academy – but when we say, "That''s magic," he says, "That''s just ordinary basic principles." If you go to a big arena, like Madison Square Garden, you will notice they put the soundsystem loudspeaker cluster in the middle of the room and the sound goes outward from there and everybody can understand what''s going on. So what you have to do is, you have to make sure that the soundsystem – which consists of whatever devices you''ve got connected to this, let''s say some processors, equalizers, an amplifier and speakers – you want to make sure that whatever the volts coming out of here – let''s say it''s two volts or ten volts, it doesn''t matter – that the amount is more than sufficient to drive the amplifiers and the loudspeakers to a playing level that''s loud enough for the room.

      id = alex-smoke-on-top-of-old-smokey
  author = 
   title = alex-smoke-on-top-of-old-smokey
    date = 
keywords = Alex; Detroit; Smoke; Warren
 summary = We''ve got a lot to talk about with Glasgow, with Detroit, with techno, with the way you make your records, some of the engineering you do, the way you DJ, all that sort of stuff. When you think of how much he''s engineered even, when you engineer for someone you''re really putting in half of yourself, things like The Martian and everyone he''s worked with in Underground Resistance, he''s the master. It''s one of those tracks that''s actually had an awful lot in it because when I first started I just didn''t know when to stop, so I''d be like, "Right, OK, I''ll write an oboe part, and I''ll write a string part, and I''ll put in a ukulele." It took me a long time to trim things down a bit. So you''ve got a bit of an intuitive approach to the way you make your music, it''s kind of like you''ll sit there and have an idea and wait for it to unfold almost.

      id = alex-tumay-lecture
  author = 
   title = alex-tumay-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Alex; Atlanta; Pemberton; Rich; Thug; Tumay
 summary = Right off the bat, like I was saying, they told you if you''re going to have to go be an intern, the first day I went in there, I wanted to make a good impression. I''m just like, "Guys, this is going to take me as long as it took to record all this music, to load your phones up, can we figure out something better?" I wanted to get them something better, and it is such a hectic time that it just came out to, "You have to email it to us, you have to." I was like, "This is not going to end well." Right, but somebody''s email got hacked from that. Just to back it up a little, my thought process about music was, "I''m going to be poor forever but I''ll make some cool shit." I literally was like, "I''ll make 25 grand a year and live in a one-bedroom apartment and die alone with some cool tracks." That''s what I was thinking the whole time.

      id = alexander-hacke-and-gareth-jones-lecture
  author = 
   title = alexander-hacke-and-gareth-jones-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Berlin; Bächer; Gareth; Hacke; Jones
 summary = Back to when this video, or maybe not this video, but the song for the video was recorded, which I think was late ''83, probably, you had been with Neubauten, kind of following them for like three years, but not all the time as an official band member. But with Mufti I remember, he was the first person to actually play me his new music coming from a hard drive, so you would walk into a room and there was no rotation whatsoever. There''s a whole community of people that build little synthesizer modules in a certain format and it''s great because these guys, aside from the fact that it''s just like, you know, like nerds meeting for their miniature model trains, just, "Oh, I need to get a new steam engine!" But the thing about that fascination and about analog, working with actual tape and stuff is that it''s an actual physical process.

      id = alexander-robotnick-houston-we-have-a-problemes
  author = 
   title = alexander-robotnick-houston-we-have-a-problemes
    date = 
keywords = Alexander; Nerattini; Robotnick
 summary = He began his musical career with a Roland 303 and an 808 which he used to lay down some demential electro, before the independent label Materiali Sonori suggested he try recording disco to make a quick buck. The result was "Problèmes d''Amour," a self-confessed flop that sold 10,000 copies back in ''83 but, as we heard during the 2004 Red Bull Music Academy, went on to influence Chicago house and Detroit techno along the way. No, because, at the time, Italo disco was the most awful music in the world, I think. Also, because I liked a lot of new wave and electronic music, and I didn''t listen at all to Italo disco during that time. After so many years of doing music, first time Djing in front of a lot of people? You have emotion when you play music so you must think about technical things.

      id = ali-shaheed-muhammad-2012
  author = 
   title = ali-shaheed-muhammad-2012
    date = 
keywords = COGNITO; Shaheed; know; like
 summary = Ali Shaheed Muhammad – of A Tribe Called Quest, the Ummah and Lucy Pearl fame – sat down on the Academy couch for a public interview with Cognito from Frolab as part of Boombox''s 5th annual celebration of the life and music of J Dilla and held in Los Angeles. Maseo] Like, the fact that you''re sitting right there, just the way you was different than I want to say like the hip hop generation before us which, that''s how things kind of formed, like we formed the group. I''m like, "You know you got to put something on it." But I don''t want to over It seems like that''s how a lot of things kind of keep that, "Yeah, I don''t like this business that''s going on in this Things like that. be like, "Yo, I''m going to take this record here, back it up here, and then

      id = alice-bag-lecture
  author = 
   title = alice-bag-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Alice; Bag; Gender; Teri; like
 summary = Exactly, and I know, you''ve probably been asked this lots of times, but do you feel like sometimes, you''re divided into three people? Because I had a mentor who was my music teacher, who actually got me… The first job I ever had was singing for bilingual cartoons, but I think the first moment that I realized that as a Latina or a Chicana or brown person, because I don''t even think I knew what a Chicana was at that point, was that when I was 11 years old, I got to go to the Chicano Moratorium, and it was the first time that I realized, "Oh, you know what, we''re not being treated fairly, and there''s a group of us, and we''re all going to get together and do something about it," so that was the awakening of feeling like, "I really do have power, I just haven''t figured out how to tap into it."

      id = alice-russell-brighton-rocks
  author = 
   title = alice-russell-brighton-rocks
    date = 
keywords = Alice; Russell
 summary = It was just great, it really got me to the next level and I loved being able to just let go with the performances, so I thank Will [Quantic] for that. Yeah, we''ve just recorded an album at the beginning of September, which is a bit more on the electro side, crazy little synths and stuff. You think, "Fuck, some people go in the studio for six months!" We recorded an album in a week, because we''re skint and we just do it how we do it – go in there, tape things up, whatever. One thing we''ve been doing lately is going back to basics – guitar and voice, then trying it out with a band, trying it live in a different way. If you haven''t got the money coming in or a record company, it''s another way for people to facilitate what you want to do.

      id = alva-noto-ryuichi-sakamoto
  author = 
   title = alva-noto-ryuichi-sakamoto
    date = 
keywords = Noto; Ryuichi; Sakamoto; Schmidt
 summary = Making abundant use of new synthesizers, samplers and recording technology, they pioneered a new electro-pop sound, with tracks like "Firecracker / Computer Game" becoming electro classics in the east and west. Our week is coming to an end and we figured it''s probably time to slow the BPM''s a little bit down, and in order to do so it is our honor to welcome two experts in this, Mr. Carsten Nicolai and Ryuichi Sakamoto. Of course, they had all a different pitch, so sonically it was very interesting, but it was a bit scary too at the same time, because you never know, is it one or maybe is something happening? There was a lot of time in between to listen to what we did, and so it was not for me very new material, but I really enjoyed with this kind of combination of this very pure electronic music and this very beautiful, Satie-esque simple piano.

      id = alvin-lucier-lecture
  author = 
   title = alvin-lucier-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Alvin; Burns; Cage; John; Lucier
 summary = When Alvin Lucier used a brainwave amplifier to create his seminal 1965 piece "Music for Solo Performer" he joined contemporaries such as John Cage in the boldness of his approach. Four years later he went further with "I Am Sitting in a Room," a seminal piece that was eventually purchased by MoMA in New York City and guaranteed his place next to Steve Reich, Philip Glass and La Monte Young as a musical pioneer of the 20th century. I said, "I''m not interested in that." I went home and I thought, "If I wrote music like that, I could survive." I''d get a job, but it wouldn''t be my music. I thought, "I''d like to have John Cage come here." I didn''t dare ask my colleagues in the music department. One of them said, "You should record the sound of your brainwaves, Alvin, and make a tape piece out of it." I thought, that''s not important.

      id = amadou-mariam
  author = 
   title = amadou-mariam
    date = 
keywords = Ambassadeurs; Les; Mali; Mariam
 summary = Guitarist/vocalist Amadou Bagayoko and vocalist Mariam Doumbia met at Mali''s Institute for Young Blind People, where they were both students and teachers. With eight studio albums, including several on US labels like Nonesuch, and collaborations with famed international artists like Manu Chao and Somali rapper K''Naan, Amadou & Mariam continue to celebrate and expand the limits of Malian music in concerts around the world. In their lecture at RBMA Berlin 2018, Amadou & Mariam discussed the import of Mali''s Institute for Young Blind People, their songwriting process, touring the world and their musical mission. We also organized solidarity weeks, with bands from the Institute playing music, dancing, that attracted many people. There were also other musicians, Jimmy Cliff who came to Mali, playing with Les Ambassadeurs and the Rail Band. But it is also because we stayed a long time in Mali, we worked hard, we listened to a lot of music.

      id = amp-fiddler-turn-up-the-amp
  author = 
   title = amp-fiddler-turn-up-the-amp
    date = 
keywords = Fiddler
 summary = I started some years ago, creating music ago in a lot of different ways. We always made demos and created songs through drum machines, like when I saw you guys working with that Roland 909 yesterday. At that time, I said, "One day, I will play in that band." I started meeting people who were involved. When I played with a DJ upstate, he said, "Well, your tracks are nice, but your vocals are on the forefront of the kick [drum], whereas on most house tracks you hear the kick right upfront." I''m not a DJ, so maybe I missed that in some ways, it''s something for me to learn. A lot of music that I''m listening to is tracks that people like you probably make, that are not proficient, or who are proficient.

      id = andrew-jervis-groove-merchant
  author = 
   title = andrew-jervis-groove-merchant
    date = 
keywords = ANDREW; BENJI; JERVIS; Ubiquity; record
 summary = I got off the plane, I went to my dorm room – I actually decided that I was going to finish my journalism degree at the University of San Francisco – and before I got on the plane I bought two records from Honest Jon''s records in London and they were on this label called Luv''N Haight and it had a phone number from San Francisco and I thought, "I must call those people when I get to San Francisco." Took them in to my little box, which had about this many records [shows the width of a small record bag], sat in this really depressing dorm room, didn''t know anybody. You kind have to weigh up, you know, "When I get out of bed tomorrow and my day''s going to be all about working with this guy, is that the guy I really want to be spending my time with?" I mean, part of this is the music business, it''s supposed to be fun, right?

      id = andrew-scheps-lecture
  author = 
   title = andrew-scheps-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Member; Scheps; mix; record
 summary = I suppose that if I''m completely honest, I feel like, "Okay, I''ve got something going on," but I just, I really, I don''t think I''m that good, so I''m constantly trying to learn and trying to be better. That''s where you learn to produce yourself is actually doing it, because Rick''s thing is to be very involved in the songwriting, the basic tracking, the vocals and the mixing, but if you want to spend nine hours messing around with the chorus guitar part, feel free, and he''ll check it out when you''re done. Like, "Why do I want to hear about the making of this record that I don''t really think is that great and I don''t want to listen to it anymore?" They want to get a "behind-the-scenes" on the stuff that''s amazing, but the excuses for why something isn''t good just don''t matter at all.

      id = andrew-weatherall-idiosyncratic-adventures
  author = 
   title = andrew-weatherall-idiosyncratic-adventures
    date = 
keywords = Andrew; Emma; Warren; Weatherall; like; music
 summary = As remixer extraordinaire, he made sure Primal Scream''s "Loaded" was the proverbial good time, put dub basslines below the likes of Saint Etienne and ran the London scene''s in-house fanzine, Boy''s Own. But, in the first of many such moves, he split that scene rather than be tied into it. I liked that scene and it was at the same time as punk was happening, disco sucks, and all that kind of carry on, but I never saw that because soul clubs were always great places. sound I like you can only get using old tape echoes and guitar amps, you know, a Fender Twin, which is pretty good, a standard rock & roll guitar amp. People want me to play an eclectic set, "Start with rockabilly then go into house and techno." I''d love to say that it works.

      id = appleblim-way-out-west
  author = 
   title = appleblim-way-out-west
    date = 
keywords = Appleblim; Warren; kind; like
 summary = It''s so different or inspiring, so my favourite DJ down there at the time was Youngsta, who would be playing a real mixture of anything from grime to kind of breaky stuff to just the beginnings of what people would think of as dubstep now. Shackleton had played me a few things, and it was kind of like, "Yeah, I think that''s OK," and he had saved a bit of money and he was like, "I really want to put something out," inspired by what we saw going on down there. And it is really nice to know that the people down there kind of appreciated it, because they were sort of like, "Oh yeah, I remember you were coming down and going mental." And DMZ eventually kind of asking us to play there and stuff, as a direct thing that we had kind of inspired them by just being that enthusiastic about the music.

      id = arabian-prince-brother-arab
  author = 
   title = arabian-prince-brother-arab
    date = 
keywords = PRINCE; TORSTEN; arabian; schmidt
 summary = Even to this day it seems a lot of people have forgotten where the street scene was at first – and I take some of the blame for it – before introducing gangster rap and kind of killing out the West Coast electro funk movement. Me and Egyptian Lover at the time were playing a lot of parks and little parties around town and we decided that we wanted to something a little bigger so we got together with some other guys and formed Uncle Jamm''s Army. So we''re like, "This is cool!" We took it to the dance and we were playing "Planet Rock" and then we go, "OK, Uncle Jamm''s Army – live in concert," and we start beating on the Synsonic Drums and people kept dancing.

      id = architecture-in-helsinki-multifunctional-structures
  author = 
   title = architecture-in-helsinki-multifunctional-structures
    date = 
keywords = Cameron; James; Schmidt; Torsten
 summary = the band, we spend a lot of time with the same people so it''s nice when you Yeah, I think we are all too neurotic and idiosyncratic in the way that we work to fall into the trappings of trying to write a song about life on the road. many people, the idea is that a band who play traditional rock music shouldn''t I think it''s maybe a good thing because it kind of gets a bit depressing but I just wanted to know for the record, you talked about the Internet and stuff, how old are you guys? So after a few months of writing music I decided I was going to try and get together a band to play the songs I had written.

      id = arthur-baker-the-man-who-rocked-the-planet
  author = 
   title = arthur-baker-the-man-who-rocked-the-planet
    date = 
keywords = Baker; Chairman; Mao; New; York
 summary = Undeterred by the experience, he moved to New York in the early ''80s and got to work with the Latin Rascals and Tommy Boy Records, putting a bombastic spin on early sample-led productions and spending time in Manhattan''s thriving clubs. We finished it up – no, Maurice didn''t play on that one – took it to New York, and all the record companies who thought I was a really great DJ would let me in, you know? I went in with Andre and T-Funk, and all the guys who played on "Happy Days." And Bambaataa came in and we had all of these records, and [we asked]: "Which one do you want to rap over?" And basically, back then you would try to take a current record, that was hitting the charts, and you''d do a rap over it, like, another version.

      id = arthur-verocai-seriado-serials
  author = 
   title = arthur-verocai-seriado-serials
    date = 
keywords = Arthur; Chang; Verocai
 summary = Arthur displays some of his dextrous light-fingered moves on the neck of his guitar, while also telling us how he got hold of the first synthesizer to arrive in Rio, and how he fit his voice, guitar, drums, bass, percussion, synth, and a 20-piece string orchestra onto four measly tracks. So we''re going to just take it very slowly like the rhythms of Brazil and hear a lot of music, hear a lot of history and Mr. Verocai is also going to grace us with his beautiful guitar and his beautiful stylings. I was listening to many styles of music, you know, but I began to play bossa nova. (music: plays Arthur Verocai "Saudade Demais" on acoustic guitar / applause) I guess maybe the other way to ask the question is does an instrument influence the way that you make the music, or the way you compose? (music: plays Arthur Verocai "Filhos" on acoustic guitar / applause) 

      id = arto-lindsay-no-wave-tropicalia
  author = 
   title = arto-lindsay-no-wave-tropicalia
    date = 
keywords = Lindsay; Nerattini; New; York
 summary = Speaking at the 2004 Red Bull Music Academy, he takes us through formative years growing up in Brazil, his involvement in the New York no wave scene of the late ''70s and how girls went crazy for a bunch of guys in suits called the Lounge Lizards. Yeah, and I realized how important Caetano was in the history of Brazilian music, but I didn''t realize that he was such a star and such a style-setter, and after having made that record, I got a lot of offers to work in Brazil. And that record came out almost at the same time as Everything But the Girl, and they were so much more popular than I was that once they did it, I was like, "I can''t do it any more." And they did a really good job of it, too, mixing the song form and the drum & bass thing, which is something that happens over and over again.

      id = arturo-lanz-cold-wave-drum-machines
  author = 
   title = arturo-lanz-cold-wave-drum-machines
    date = 
keywords = Lanz; Warren; music
 summary = Arturo Lanz abandoned a career in pop music for one in uncompromising industrial – or repetitive meditation music, as he would put it – as Esplendor Geométrico in the early years of post-Franco Spain. Now living and working in Beijing, he divides his free time between running, cycling and music. You don''t think about funk in a natural sense, but somehow your music has a lot of groove in it. How do you find a groove when your source material is industrial sounds and machine music and aggressive sounds like that? It''s a reaction against some people who think music is only joy and funny. wrong, but I think generally people feel politics and music should be Because I don''t think about people when I make music. One thing I think people here might struggle with is to know when a track is

      id = artwork-original-croydon-crew
  author = 
   title = artwork-original-croydon-crew
    date = 
keywords = Schmidt; Torsten; artwork; like
 summary = So there''s always been something in Croydon, even if it''s a tiny little thing, where you could get hold of music and meet people, and Big Apple records was our one. There was some darker stuff around but when we first got it pressed up the guy was like, "Well, I''m glad you''re selling it at your shop, because you''re not going to sell many!" (laughs) We made it a red-coloured I suppose the next kind of thing I should play is when FWD>> early on started to get there, as Hatcha was the main DJ there, and he was asking people to make darker records. But the lucky thing was that you got studio monitors but you also had a record shop downstairs that had speakers bigger than this (gestures to speakers), so it was great because you could just walk downstairs, plug it down, or bring your tracks and think, "Oh, it''s not quite working, I need more

      id = asap-rocky-london-2015
  author = 
   title = asap-rocky-london-2015
    date = 
keywords = Collins; Hattie; Rocky
 summary = And I remember Tyler did it and Mos was there it just looked like they had an amazing time and I said to myself, ''Man if Mos likes Tyler then I probably got a chance because that means he likes weirdo music, too.'' [laughs] I was like oh they got punk ass cops over there I can go over there do whatever the fuck I want man. It''s the energy right now I feel like people, I''m just going to go on the grime for instance, the States have no idea what grime music is. I don''t know where the fuck grime is going to go in the next few years, but I think that it''s amazing that there''s other artists who saw what we did and felt they should do the same. You all are going to think this is weird, people don''t usually don''t talk about shit like this but I tell yeah.

      id = asap-rocky-new-york-2015
  author = 
   title = asap-rocky-new-york-2015
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Harlem; Mao; Rocky
 summary = In a public conversation with Ego Trip founder and Academy team member Chairman Mao at the 2015 Red Bull Music Academy Festival in New York, celebrated Harlem MC A$AP Rocky disclosed details on his At.Long.Last.A$AP album and premiered the "Everyday" single featuring Rod Stewart, Miguel and Mark Ronson. But Rocky went deeper, too, digging up stories about his childhood spent between Harlem and the Bronx, his affinity for Houston rap, the making of a new A$AP Mob album, and his methods of coping with the loss of his late mentor and friend, A$AP Yams. Yeah, man, I mean it''s one of those things man, I don''t want to start preaching and shit again, but you know, I think all I can really do is like, for me, is just be myself because if I worry about what anybody wants be to be or what black men should be, man, we''ll all be confused because what the fuck is a black man in 2015?

      id = asha-puthli
  author = 
   title = asha-puthli
    date = 
keywords = Asha; CBS; Datt; Deepti; Puthli; indian
 summary = So it was like a catch-22 and I said, "Oh my god, how am I going to get there?" So the stewardess thing worked fine, it worked and then I went there a year later. This deportation in Singapore, you''ve recorded there, you got to New York, Martha Graham, John Hammond, you''re recording with Ornette Coleman, and for those of you who may not know, the album was called Science Fiction, and it''s now legendary. I hadn''t heard a lot of the other black stuff that was going on, so I really got turned on to all the R&B singers, and I liked it and I said, "Well that''s the kind of music I''d love to do." As a creative person, your passions keep changing.

      id = atom-heart-splitting-the-atom
  author = 
   title = atom-heart-splitting-the-atom
    date = 
keywords = Schmidt; Warren; latin
 summary = It would be really good at the end, if you lot have got any questions, any specific things you wanted to ask about how the music happened or the production or the techniques or the stories or anything you want to ask. So I think it might be nice to start with a very obvious question, which I''m sure is one you might have answered, but I''m sure people want to know: What was the response from Kling Klang or was there any response at all to the Señor Coconut, to the first Kraftwerk covers album? Let''s go there and see what''s going to happen." Just for a year, the plan was to go for one year because obviously making music and having contacts with a lot of people within Europe, I was a bit afraid that being that far away would have a negative influence and that things would shut down or change.

      id = atrak-and-dj-mehdi-short-attention-span-people
  author = 
   title = atrak-and-dj-mehdi-short-attention-span-people
    date = 
keywords = Mehdi; Paris; Punk; Schmidt; trak
 summary = Even if everything I''ve produced this year is in the 120 to 130 bpm range and is meant to be played next to an electro song in a club set, I''ll still listen to electro and dance records and there will always be one thing in a track that I hear and I''m like, "I don''t know how to do this." Daft Punk was one of those groups where you could relate to it as a hip-hop head, because you''d be like, "Oh yeah, they''re just looping stuff and doing it so well that it becomes a pop song." Their approach of it is very sample-based. When you first start making them for the first year or so, you don''t really play them to more people than a few of your friends because you just figure like, "Yeah, that''s just me fucking around with non-hip-hop stuff and I don''t really know where it''s going, but I''m just kind of doing it because I''m bored with rap type of thing."

      id = bappi-lahiri
  author = 
   title = bappi-lahiri
    date = 
keywords = Lahiri; Rekha
 summary = In a composing career that has stretched over five decades, hundreds of films and thousands of songs, Bappi Lahiri has established himself as an unparalleled force in the world of Bollywood and beyond. The Bengali-born singer is regarded as the first artist to introduce disco to Indian cinema, a stylistic shift that had a seismic impact on the genre''s vibrant musical personality for years to come. A former playback singer before transitioning into composing "filmi music," Lahiri maintains a theatrical presence that suits his artistic heritage, with an approach to his work and personal presentation that combines the best of Bollywood excess, disco flamboyance and hip-hop attitude. So as you guys know, Bollywood is the music from the Hindi film industry. Because I was so young at the time, you know, like my age is 19, 20 years, 20, 21 years this song.

      id = ben-ufo-tokyo-2014
  author = 
   title = ben-ufo-tokyo-2014
    date = 
keywords = Martin; UFO
 summary = London''s Ben UFO started out on pirate radio station Sub FM in 2007, playing dubstep alongside friends, producers and DJs Pangaea and Pearson Sound. After being sent new music every week, the trio started the Hessle Audio label that same year, through which they joined the dots of the UK underground between house, techno, jungle and drum & bass as the global dubstep scene was exploding. fans and people that really liked the music and wanted to play it. Yeah, well like I said, we were very much fans of this music, so when people started Once you started playing this music on the radio I always really liked... radio and playing music on the dancefloor do you think there is a disparity about specialism and eclecticism, I think a lot of the time, like you said, I think it would be a slightly odd as a DJ playing music for people

      id = benga-diary-of-an-afro-wobbler
  author = 
   title = benga-diary-of-an-afro-wobbler
    date = 
keywords = BENGA; WARREN; emma
 summary = If people know what time I''m gonna be going in there, they''ll come in and hear it and be like, "I want that one!" People want to know what I''m making and creating, but the only way they can hear it is if they come out to the raves. [laughs] It''s more like if another producer comes to the club and sees the reaction that Spongebob got, you go home and try and get that same energy. People are so used to so much, like wobblers … they don''t know that I do actually listen to music. studios work and how they do things for you, and also that must have given you a big sense of connection with the music when you were hearing it out and about knowing that you''d been there somehow. I think you have to make your own music, even just because a lot of the producers now try and hold their tunes back, and that''s what people want to hear.

      id = benjamin-wright-jr-tokyo-2014
  author = 
   title = benjamin-wright-jr-tokyo-2014
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Jr.; Mao; Wright
 summary = You just write." And I remember the session on old trumpet player, pulled me to the side, "Hey, young blood, let me speak to you." "OK." He says, "Have you ever seen a breath mark?" "Yeah." However, I had never payed attention to a breath mark. Because I''m doing the music, I''m in the studio, I''m dealing with their vocals and the whole bit, it''s like, "Yeah, let Benjamin take care of everything. The music industry moved to LA We all know that, I think around ''73 or something, Motown said, "Hey, we''re going to LA" And Chicago was a hub, man. So then he says, "Hey man, I was suggested that I come see you, and I know about your work and the whole bit, and I want to do this thing," and he uses this term, "like Frank Sinatra." So I took an old man attitude.

      id = benny-sings-under-covers
  author = 
   title = benny-sings-under-covers
    date = 
keywords = Benny; Schmidt; Sings
 summary = Little did they know that 27 years later, their son would come full circle and reinvent himself as Benny Sings to debut his own version of incandescent pop in major keys: Lush, swinging, hip-hop-influenced neo-soul with a singer-songwriter edge and a six-piece band for live shows. Still I guess a lot of the people who somehow like to think of themselves as becoming a songwriter one day, they might run into this fear of, "Hey this is me, my world, my thoughts, my feelings. Really, for a long time it was for me like, "I''m not going to make this crap music, this kind of ''80s song stuff." I''m not going to do that, it''s not cool. feel-good song, but when you listen to the individual tracks, for example, you hear that there''s a hell of a lot of things going on at the same time, which you don''t realize at all, but...

      id = bernard-purdie-give-the-drummer-some
  author = 
   title = bernard-purdie-give-the-drummer-some
    date = 
keywords = Alapatt; Bernard; Egon; Purdie
 summary = You did a record for the Date company, and I think we should play a cut from it just so people can understand this rhythms that you''re talking about, this grounding you are talking about, at a time when the bass player could bow out as frequently as he wanted to because you were going to do your thing, whether he wanted you to or not. Now, I don''t want to stop you talking about making money, ''cause I know that''s one of the things you do best, but as much as we love records like those records like "Soul Drums" and these rarer Bernard Purdie records that are full of drums all over the place, it was actually these pop songs that let people hear you the world over.

      id = bernie-worrell
  author = 
   title = bernie-worrell
    date = 
keywords = Bernie; George; Schmidt; Torsten; Worrell
 summary = Bernie Worrell first came to prominence as a founding member and musical director of Parliament-Funkadelic, radically charting the course of emerging keyboard technology during the golden age of synthesis. Worrell''s colorings, this time delivered via new digital keyboards, were central to the recasting of group leader David Byrne''s musical ideas through African rhythms. In the years since he left Talking Heads, Worrell has been a phenomenally prolific studio musician, contributing to projects by the likes of Bill Laswell, Keith Richards, the Pretenders, and Deee-Lite. In his 2013 Red Bull Music Academy lecture, P-Funk''s synthesizer wizard sits on the couch – and behind the Hammond – to discuss his biggest records with Parliament-Funkadelic, the Talking Heads, and more. Let''s probably play a little bit of music right here. What''s crazy when you know a song mostly by DJs playing, like, a certain hear it, or I haven''t played it for, like I said, first time in years, three,

      id = beverly-glenn-copeland
  author = 
   title = beverly-glenn-copeland
    date = 
keywords = Copeland; Glenn; HOCKIN; JOHNNY
 summary = I was actually quite good at it, but I never wanted to play it because there''s no way I was going to come anywhere close to my father and his ability on piano. Among other things, for if you wanted to paint, or if you wanted to do music, and this we''re talking 1957 folks, so it was really truly ahead of its time, right? I''m going off here, but you know you think you look like X, Y, and Z, but you have no idea what''s in your bloodlines, and what starts calling you not only what you''re hearing in the environment, but what''s actually coming from your bloodlines. It was very difficult in some ways because nothing I ever wrote sounded like anything anybody wanted to hear at that time because I was writing stuff... I almost don''t relate to stuff that I write and you know the day before yesterday much less 40-50 years ago, right?

      id = bhavishyavani-future-soundz
  author = 
   title = bhavishyavani-future-soundz
    date = 
keywords = Ahluwalia; Deora; Lobo; Mangeshkar; Tejas
 summary = In this public conversation held at Mumbai''s Famous Studios, three of the Bhavishyavani Future Soundz founders – Ashim Ahluwalia, Mukul Deora and Tejas Mangeshkar – shared stories of how they mixed foreign and local inspirations together, and the uphill battles of trying to establish a new culture of nightlife in a country undergoing its own cultural and demographic explosion. And no, we ask him, "Boss, what is this thing called?" We call everyone boss like the rickshaw driver, the grocery store guy, the ice cream vendor, and he said, "Bhavishyavani." So we come back to the office and Kurnal''s tripping on the dreams of Hoffman, uncle Hoffman and all that. Fast dancing for a new India was Ashim, because what happened at that point is we were kind of doing these sessions in our office in Mahim, and some of the tracks, we were wondering how the guys might dance, like how do we make them fast dance to the music?

      id = black-coffee-lecture
  author = 
   title = black-coffee-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Africa; Coffee; Martin
 summary = In his 2016 Red Bull Music Academy lecture, Black Coffee discusses the early club sounds of South Africa, breaking through in a burgeoning local industry, working with Masekela, and more. Then, you would play everything, like from that I think one of the funniest songs I remember that was so big in my country, so people would be dancing to that, next thing you hear, [singing]. But you''d play it over and over and I think if you listened to it today, it was maybe like, 120, 121, but it just sounded so weird, and everyone was like, "No, this is music for white people." For the longest time, and eventually, it just changed and became "Wow, this is actually good." The songs on that album, if you want to play a classic house song in South Africa, that''s the album to play.

      id = black-milk-milkin-it
  author = 
   title = black-milk-milkin-it
    date = 
keywords = CHANG; JEFF; MILK; black
 summary = What''s interesting to me to is that this time actually in hip-hop, this is we''re talking about the late ''90s now, a lot of folks had moved away from sampling because it was just two expensive, but youe whole thing was like, "I want to take it back to…" I think you were talking about the trinity the other day right? Labels, they want to make they money, there''s nothing wrong with that, but for me it was like, "I''ve got a whole different vision." I had to step back and do my solo thing, so that''s why I eventually came out with a project last year, summer of 2005, I came out with a project called Sound Of The City where I had different Detroit artists on there and just showing the people what I do.

      id = black-moon-lecture
  author = 
   title = black-moon-lecture
    date = 
keywords = CHAIRMAN; Dee; JEFF; MAO
 summary = they just knew that they liked this record "Who Got the Props?" and a lot of fortunate to get a record deal at the time by Michael Weiss, put it like that. be like, "Word, I got the beat, give me five minutes, Imma look for it." Come he''s like, "Yo, want some burgers?" "Nah, we all right." Next thing you know (music: Black Moon "Act Like U Want Now, the funny thing about "Act Like U Want It" real quick is that record was I didn''t know how to mix a record or nothing like that. be like, "I don''t know, I got to…" He would every night in different times, it One of those tracks where it''s like, you know, we going through the stages. We didn''t know how or what was going to happen, but like I said, we

      id = blondie-lecture
  author = 
   title = blondie-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Chris; Debbie; Harry; New; Stein
 summary = Emerging from the New York punk scene, Chris Stein and Deborah Harry took the world by storm with their innovative production, sharp image and tales of urban heartbreak. With classic songs like "Hanging On The Telephone," "Heart Of Glass," "Rapture," and "The Tide Is High," they created their own sound from New York''s melting pot of punk, wave, reggae and hip-hop, all shot through with Deborah Harry''s cool soul. kind of like going to a club once a week, but everybody just gathered in this these guys were in a kind of bridge band that went from the glam New York you''ve got people like The Ramones or Talking Heads in the audience or Yeah, I don''t know who that guy is. I mean, you hear stories like that all the time, right?

      id = blu-and-exile-of-pads-and-patterns
  author = 
   title = blu-and-exile-of-pads-and-patterns
    date = 
keywords = Blu; Bortot; Davide
 summary = I would read his raps and be like, "Damn, this fool got some crazy punchlines." And then one day he played me Resurrection and I was, "You said all that." One Day It Will All Make Sense I heard before and it did really change me, it was the first hip-hop record I heard where there were so many topics, so many concepts, a rapper with so much to say, without having the craziest style like a Busta Rhymes or a DMX. When two people come together, more so than having one person directing a record, then a sound gets developed, a certain direction, something cohesive about it. At the time I''d just put out Blu & Exile with Ex, which was more feel-good hip-hop, lyrical, trying to touch people with lyrics. Whenever those big classics come in hip-hop, it''s always like one producer, one rapper, so how was it on Below the Heavens?

      id = bob-moog-the-soul-machine
  author = 
   title = bob-moog-the-soul-machine
    date = 
keywords = Bob; Moog; Schmidt
 summary = But pretty soon, after the first strains of synthesizer success by Walter/Wendy Carlos, the Moog stole its way into the heart of rock and jazz fusion, and helped instigate all types of electronic music. How did you get there, how did that fascination with things weird words like oscillators, modulation and all that other freaky stuff start? Well, I learned the basics in school, but the whole business of sound design I was sort of in the middle of as that became an important part of music. And don''t ask me where the idea came from to make what''s called a voltage controlled oscillator (VCO) or a voltage controlled amplifier (VCA), but I just thought about it in the same way as many of you think about [Laughter] So Carlos'' record made real money, and then people understood that you could use these things to produce – to play, to realise, whatever word you want to use – music that wasn''t important because it

      id = bob-power-it-always-takes-longer
  author = 
   title = bob-power-it-always-takes-longer
    date = 
keywords = Bob; Member; Power; Schmidt; like; thing
 summary = I really, really like what you do." So, record companies will say that, and they send you limousines, and they give you an iPod and all this nice shit, [laughter] and in the back of their minds, generally they''re thinking, "Oh good, if only I can get them to do this!" Now most of the time, this is not that different from what you do, especially experienced A&R people really know what''s going on. I don''t remember, but someone kind of told me, "I don''t need a shrink, just press record." You know, it''s like, "Cool man, whatever." But all this stuff is very important before you get to the studio. And no matter how much money I could ask for as a recordist or as a recording engineer, I looked at what people were getting for mixing, and I was like, "Alright." And that''s another thing, about how you structure your rates.

      id = bobbito-garcia
  author = 
   title = bobbito-garcia
    date = 
keywords = Bobbito; Garcia; Rock; Stretch; brimmer
 summary = As one half of the Stretch Armstrong & Bobbito Show, broadcasted out of Columbia University''s WKCR weekly between 1990 and 1998, Bobbito helped to launch the careers of hip-hop legends like Nas, the Notorious B.I.G., Jay Z and Big Pun. But while the man also known as Kool Bob Love is often remembered for his contributions to hip-hop culture, his reputation goes beyond: He has also served eminently behind the scenes, via his vinyl-only imprint Álala Records, as a b-ball pro for ESPN, and most recently as a documentary maker and producer. Being 50 years old and having checked off everything on my bucket list for life goals, I felt like, "You know what, I''ve lived a complete and full life in New York, it''s OK if I make a change." At age 25 I would''ve never done that, but at age 50 we can invite that, and it''s been great.

      id = boi-1da
  author = 
   title = boi-1da
    date = 
keywords = Drake; Member; like
 summary = Alongside long-time collaborator Drake, Boi-1da pointed hip-hop into new directions at the end of the 2000s with hits like "Forever" and "Best I Ever Had." To say it all went fast from there would be a massive understatement. Not only did Boi-1da help shape a new sound for Toronto and Canadian hip-hop, he has had his hands in everything from major projects like Eminem''s Recovery and Relapse (including the Grammy-winning "Not Afraid"), Nicki Minaj, Rick Ross and Meek Mill to underground tracks by the likes of Das Racist and an album with gospel rapper Bizzle. Sitting with us on the couch today is a man who is predominantly known for his work with a little rapper named Drake, but has also produced for a few other little-known rappers like Eminem, Lil Wayne, Nicki Minaj, Rick Ross.

      id = boi-1da-2017
  author = 
   title = boi-1da-2017
    date = 
keywords = Drake; Member; Mistry; like
 summary = In the second half of the 2010s, the Toronto-raised native of Jamaica further expanded his reach with the global hits "Work" for Rihanna and "Controlla" for Drake, as well as collaborations with Kendrick Lamar, PARTYNEXTDOOR and Lana Del Rey. In his lecture at the Red Bull Music Academy Bass Camp Montreal 2017, the boy wonder retraced his steps from buying FruityLoops with his mom''s credit card to mining his Jamaican roots to reimagine dancehall for the streaming generation, and imparted advice on business, sampling and collaborations. I didn''t expect it, but when I heard people playing their beats, I was like, "Oh, these guys are not really that good." [laughter] Well basically in Jamaica the way how music works in Jamaica they have, if you guys don''t know already, they have a riddim which is like a beat and every artist will just go on the same beat and then have different songs on the same beat.

      id = bok-bok
  author = 
   title = bok-bok
    date = 
keywords = Slugs; Warren; bok; like
 summary = wanted to start a club night for fun, just like everyone else. FWD>> was a club night in London and I bring it up – well, it''s a good thing you brought it up – I want explain a little bit because it''s totally vital, influential to what we''re doing now, I feel. Kingdom, people like Egyptrixx at time, because Girl Unit and Jam City weren''t really in it at that point so much, in the really early days. people like Kingdom and Egyptrixx and thinking, "How come these club tracks Other than that, I think it''s just trying to make people feel stuff in the club. For people that are into grime, I think a lot of people, it made it click for them when the Dizzee record came out, when the first Dizzee singles started coming out, "I Luv U," and all that kind of stuff.

      id = bootsy-collins
  author = 
   title = bootsy-collins
    date = 
keywords = Brown; Collins; James; Nick
 summary = You know how young boys look up to their brothers and want to be like he needs you right now." Now, mind you, we''re playing a gig and we said, "Nah, James don''t want us." "Yeah, he wants ya''ll right now. didn''t have tape recorders and stuff like that, we were good at keeping things You know, Bootsy." "Man, I know, I''ve been looking for you." So, we started up a conversation and he was like, "Man, I would love it if you would come out and become Funkadelic, help me do this thing And it got so twisted that we started thinking, "Yeah, we are Funkadelic." So the next thing we know, House Guests say, "We want you to do interviews and stuff, but you can''t use the word "funk" and we can''t play your hit record because it''s got all those airplanes

      id = breakbeat-lou
  author = 
   title = breakbeat-lou
    date = 
keywords = Lou; like; record
 summary = Growing up in New York City in the ''70s, Louis Flores came to hip-hop like so many other Latino kids his age: by rushing to contribute as it sprung up around him, first as a dancer and then as a DJ and producer. In this lecture at the Red Bull Music Academy presents Laboratorio La Havana 2019, Flores discussed his relationship with pioneers such as Scott La Rock and the DITC crew, why UBB and Street Beat Records came to be and how he navigates the ever-changing waters of hip-hop, both musically and culturally. Back then the first name for that kind of music was freestyle, like the records we sang, Lisa Lisa, Trinere, Debbie Deb or that crowd, the first name for it was Latin hip-hop. So we both decided we''d give [DJs and producers] the materials for the records that played in the jams, that ended up being the first nine volumes [of Ultimate Breaks and Beats], so they''d at least have the songs that really started the culture.

      id = brian-cross-brazilian-love-affair
  author = 
   title = brian-cross-brazilian-love-affair
    date = 
keywords = Cross; Schmidt
 summary = Do you really want to look at the pan for 30 seconds, or will 10 seconds do on this one?" Just started to think about ideas like that, and the key thing really is trying to understand how visuals change with sound, and how sound changes with visuals. It must be kind of weird if you say you''ve got this learning process of un-hearing, and as a photographer you have probably similar experience of un-seeing so you can capture the energy of a whole day, a whole week, or whatever, or a life even in that one still. A lot of people that see it think it''s like two films. Then it''s weird, because then there''s times when you''re looking at the picture and you''re kind of like, "Damn, we just heard his snare and now we seen him playing the snare again and where the fuck is it?

      id = brian-eno
  author = 
   title = brian-eno
    date = 
keywords = Brian; Emma; Eno; Warren; music
 summary = So there''s quite a lot of quasi-musical material in the music, which could sound a little bit like traffic, or people leaning on car horns, or breathing heavily, or the sorts of things that people do in cities: sneezing, cursing each other, knifing each other. he was at that time involved in the design of a new hospital in Brighton, which has now opened, and he thought that a space like this would be a very good idea for people who''d just had done treatment, or chemotherapy in particular, he was thinking of. There''s one thing that you''ve talked about it in the past, this idea of "scenius," which is a word that you coined to describe the kind of extreme genius that happens when a group of people come together around something that they all love.

      id = brian-fallon
  author = 
   title = brian-fallon
    date = 
keywords = Brian; Fallon; New; RBMA
 summary = From his four albums with the Gaslight Anthem, to his soulful solo work and his Horrible Crowes side project, Fallon is one of the great storytellers of our time. In a 2012 public interview with Red Bull Music Academy in New Jersey, Fallon discussed his influences, storytelling, recording in Nashville, and more. Guys like that, I don''t think they care that much. I''d be like, "Matty, you got any work? People think musicians; they come to your work all the time. as far as a lot of people that come from a punk rock scene or anything like What''s your next record going to sound like? Music," a song like "Unsatisfied" wouldn''t be as good. thing in the world to have is that embracement from a guy like that. normal like treating people good and voting for the guy who''s not going to lie

      id = brian-jackson-lecture
  author = 
   title = brian-jackson-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Brian; Chairman; Gil; Jackson; Mao
 summary = On the flute and electric piano, Brian Jackson''s compositions were at the heart of nearly ten Scott-Heron albums, including the critically acclaimed Winter in America and Pieces of a Man. After he split with Heron in 1980, Jackson recorded with giants such as Earth Wind & Fire, Stevie Wonder and Roy Ayers: inflecting his jazz, soul and proto-hip-hop stylings into the groundbreaking arrangements that inform vast swathes of popular music today. I was wondering if you would like to play this one particular song that I want to do, my boy he couldn''t really figure it out but I think maybe you could." The song is like "The Bottle" or "Home Is Where The Hatred Is," people think, "Okay, Gil must be a drug addict because how can anybody dive into the emotions that you have to get into to be able to write a song like that." And in reality as far as I know he wasn''t a drug addict at the time.

      id = brian-reitzell-lecture
  author = 
   title = brian-reitzell-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Brian; Burns; Hannibal; Reitzell
 summary = Brian Reitzell is a musician, composer, producer and music supervisor best known for his contributions to several films by Sofia Coppola, including The Virgin Suicides, Lost in Translation (collaborating with Kevin Shields of My Bloody Valentine), and Marie Antoinette. In this 2015 Red Bull Music Academy lecture, Reitzell spoke about the trials and tribulations of licensing music for film, his ongoing work scoring Hannibal, and his collaborations with artists like Air, Kevin Shields, Aphex Twin, and more. The Air thing came because they were going to score this movie, it was Sofia Coppola''s first film and she had asked me to be the music supervisor because I''m a total record geek. One of the things about that that''s interesting is that I guess Sofia''s filming certain scenes where they''re singing along in a car to a song and it''s kind of like, if you don''t have that license already in place, you''re taking a pretty big chance by having these actors sing along in a car.

      id = bun-b-grinder-country
  author = 
   title = bun-b-grinder-country
    date = 
keywords = Bortot; Bun; Jay; Pimp; UGK; people
 summary = That being said, a lot of the people who came into the music So we were listening to that kind of shit, and I remember listening to the first Geto Boys album and hearing things like "Assassins" and I didn''t even know people can do shit like people didn''t think rap really took much, they thought we were just saying shit over A lot of times in rap music particularly, people put up people who are in the streets doing different shit, they think about a lot of and will people forgive me when this is over?" So there is a lot of shit like But most people who complain don''t do shit about it, they just like to complain, and it''s time they stop talking and music and be better people because I know how we get looked at a lot and it is what is going on, with people''s conditions and shit like that, and I really just

      id = buraka-som-sistema-rave-against-the-machine
  author = 
   title = buraka-som-sistema-rave-against-the-machine
    date = 
keywords = Barbosa; Branko; Warren
 summary = Hailing from Lisbon, Buraka Som Sistema took hip-hop, techno, zouk from the Caribbean and kuduro from Angola to fashion an irresistible dance music sound that quickly wooed anyone who heard it. Beginning in the early 2000s, Branko, DJ Riot, Conductor and Kalaf Angelo collaborated with local Portuguese and Angolan artists before arriving at their kuduro distillation right as the global bass idea was taking hold across music blogs, dancefloors and festival stages. In this lecture at the 2008 Red Bull Music Academy in Barcelona, core members João "Branko" Barbosa (a former Academy alumni) and Andro "Conductor" Carvalho talk about global street music, the colonial and cultural links between Portugal and Africa and recording in Luanda. There is definitely a lot of people who tend to just grab something and try and show it off to the world and get credit from it, because obviously, no one is ever going to hear about these kuduro artists right here.

      id = caribou-the-artist-formerly-known-as-manitoba
  author = 
   title = caribou-the-artist-formerly-known-as-manitoba
    date = 
keywords = Caribou; Member; like; music
 summary = Not the song you might play to start off a conversation with a guy who had the Electronica Album of the Year verified by Canada''s Independent Music Awards in 2002, but that''s probably the reason that I''m sitting here talking with him because, as you guys know, the only people I''ve spoken to this term have been Bernard Purdie and David Matthews. At an early age, I''m sure a lot of people here if not everybody here realized that music was something very special to them and got into it, but growing up in an isolated pace like that, you kind of don''t know where to start. By the time I got to this point – the kinds of things that appeared in that track were definitely that kind of electronic music tradition up to people like Aphex Twin and Boards of Canada.

      id = carl-craig-planet-evolution
  author = 
   title = carl-craig-planet-evolution
    date = 
keywords = Craig; Schmidt
 summary = I think also Toronto''s maybe a bit more cosmopolitan in ideas and thoughts to what happens artistically and what''s accepted and the boundaries you can really take, where Detroit is a very small-town mentality, and I think that''s what helped us to make the music we have over the years, because we were fighting against a lot of the small-minded mentality that came from the people sometimes. I''m changing sequences and running and trying to pull instruments out and in and stuff, so it makes it a little more difficult, but I like that kind of thing. It was just a situation where I took my time and really listened to it and listened to what he did, and even with that song, what I did in order to try and make it better, ''cause I think what he did was genius, was not to sample him and play the samples.

      id = carl-mcintosh-tying-up-some-loose-ends
  author = 
   title = carl-mcintosh-tying-up-some-loose-ends
    date = 
keywords = CARL; Chairman; JEFF; MCINTOSH; Mao
 summary = When lawyers start talking about how many times have you used the sample and we need a certain percentage of your song and they start working out deals, it kind of sometimes gets a little bit like, the gentleman said it, "Did you get paid?" I mean, there must be about 20, at least 20 times when that song''s been sampled and I didn''t get paid. You know, things like that happened to the group in a kind of a way and a time where it was coming to a point where people had money in their pockets, we were driving Mercedes and we had houses and everyone, their chest was high. It''s funny ''cause the guy that used to play in the band, Steve Nichol, he always used to add just that little nice piece that made the whole thing work.

      id = carlos-maria-trindade
  author = 
   title = carlos-maria-trindade
    date = 
keywords = Maria; Martin; Trindade; music
 summary = As part of bands such as Corpo Diplomático, Heróis Do Mar and Madredeus, Trindade learned to adapt the rock sounds to Portuguese language and sensibilities before exploring the intersections of experimental, folk and ambient music, beginning in 1991 with the now cult album Mr. Wollogallu alongside Nuno Canavarro. In this public conversation as part of the Lisboa Electronica festival, Carlos Maria Trindade detailed his experiences growing up in ''60s Lisbon, how he learned to express a Portuguese identity through music and what led him to venture further into a world of sound. Tell me a little bit about what it was like growing up in Portugal as a young man in Lisbon, and what kind of sounds and what kind of music you were hearing on the streets at that time. Could we perhaps listen to a record from that time with some Portuguese lyrics and then you could tell us how the language would have impacted the music itself?

      id = carsten-nicolai-listening-to-10000-khz
  author = 
   title = carsten-nicolai-listening-to-10000-khz
    date = 
keywords = Alva; Noto; Warren
 summary = In his 2011 Red Bull Music Academy lecture, he talks about the differences between sounds and music, the physical impact of different ranges, his upbringing in the old East Germany, and his work with Ryuichi Sakamoto. music, mostly we only talk about a very small, specific frequency range inside of sound. places sometimes and you hear sound around you and it kind of sounds like music almost. I think similar is with acoustics and how a room is sounding, what kind of tone you''re hearing. thing I''m trying to do is when you start using sound – and music is a part of Yeah, I can play a track from the new album, maybe. I think the great thing was he introduced something into my world of sound, I like to stay a little bit where I started, where I come from – the minimal, very simple idea of electronic sound.

      id = cerrone-lecture
  author = 
   title = cerrone-lecture
    date = 
keywords = France; Member; Thévenin; cerrone; french
 summary = During disco''s heyday, dancefloors burned red hot with the sound of Marc Cerrone: a French producer, composer and drummer whose hit 1977 album Supernature brought together live orchestral composition and the radical synthesized sounds pioneered by Giorgio Moroder. After selling millions of records worldwide, turning his impressive live performance into a successful Broadway musical and scoring film soundtracks, Cerrone''s legacy of bringing the disco sound into the mainstream endures. This is where we went to search for American records that would have been released in France nine months later, what we would have called an "import." I had given [Gary] 10 records, then 20, then 50, and he told me, "Your thing is really enjoyable." And as the guy was talking to me like I am talking to you, I had my picture on the record cover.

      id = charlotte-gainsbourg
  author = 
   title = charlotte-gainsbourg
    date = 
keywords = Charlotte; Gainsbourg; Sarratia
 summary = Propelled into singing at the age of 13 by her charismatic father, with whom she recorded "Lemon Incest" followed by the album Charlotte For Ever, Charlotte Gainsbourg eventually chose to make cinema her career. Over the past decade, the acclaimed actress has pursued a dual career in music and film recording two albums with Beck, contributing to soundtracks and performing live. In a public conversation at l''Éléphant Paname for the Red Bull Music Academy Paris Festival 2017, Gainsbourg traced her musical evolution with a playlist including songs her parents played in the house, key soundtracks and the musicians that have fanned her ongoing interest in electronic music, leading to her most recent collaborations with Parisian producer SebastiAn. The first time I saw her was in 1984 in "Lemon Incest" then in cinemas in 1986 in Love Songs, then in L''Effrontée and as your career went on music and film continued to intertwine and in our lives as well.

      id = che-pope
  author = 
   title = che-pope
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Kanye; Mao; Member; Pope
 summary = We have with us today as our first lecture of the day, a gentleman who, don''t look at my notes, who is the president of G.O.O.D. Music which means he works intimately with an individual you may be familiar with, named Kanye West, amongst many other artists and creative people. It might be Dre, Scott Storage, myself, Mike Elizondo, and then that''s when I really realized how good other people were and you''re in there with five of their all-stars and then the best in the middle of the thing, you sort of … That gets you … I felt like that was great preparation for any experience. Literally, maybe 5 in the morning one day, A$AP''s like, "Che, I know you got a bunch of soul samples." He''s like, "I want to make a jukebox song." Unbeknownst to me, that Kanye had actually already given him a track that I had given Kanye so then we just ended up adding onto it.

      id = chez-damier-cherchez-le-chez
  author = 
   title = chez-damier-cherchez-le-chez
    date = 
keywords = CHEZ; DAMIER; TORSTEN; schmidt
 summary = That''s the thing you always ask yourself when you see, I don''t know, Pete Townshend from The Who up on stage and you wonder, "How many times has this man sung ''My Generation''?" Then, every time he gets to this point where he goes like, "Hope I die before I get old," and then you''re like, makes kind of sense when you''re like 21 and you''re like, on your school day and you want to bash people''s heads in. It''s a big difference, but if you don''t have something to fall back on, I think that, from what I''ve seen in life, there''s usually one and 2% of people who start out in the music business on this level that ends up sustaining to stay there. The artist was Leroy Burgess, and it was just amazing actually to have a chance to work with someone that had heard for… I think, musically, he''s had the most recordings of any dance person history… I believe over 100 albums, projects that he''s been a part of.

      id = chilly-gonzales-lecture
  author = 
   title = chilly-gonzales-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Gonzales; Warren; like; music
 summary = Because I was already in my mind pretty sure I wanted to make miniature songs, more like songs with the structure of pop music, so right away, there was a moment where I said, "I''m just going to reject this." I gave it a chance, but I''m not interested in deep structure. I was like, "They don''t have to choose." I didn''t even think about rapping or making a beat, I just thought, "I''m going to take that approach and apply it to my music." That was my first influence, was how to ignore that false choice. Now, if you don''t know what the Junos are, it''s Canada''s pathetic attempt to have the Grammys, and the Junos was being hosted by Drake that year, 2011, and for the opening sketch he wanted to do something where he''d be in a tux, almost like a lounge singer, and he asked me to come play piano for that sketch.

      id = chloe-le-conservatoire-du-trottoir
  author = 
   title = chloe-le-conservatoire-du-trottoir
    date = 
keywords = Janson
 summary = From there she further refined her distinct approach to playing live and working in the studio informed by her voracious appetite for music and keen ear for composition. time in France where electronic music was not so famous as it is today maybe, I think he keeps going and he still likes to play a lot, for three or four In Berlin, they never stop and you have all these kind of clubs too and I think you play the music for the kind of crowd you want to play to. Motown records or if I don''t have some tracks she likes, she doesn''t want to listen to music. people are really into the music so you can play whatever you want. playing because even the people who didn''t like electronic music liked this We can go and play in the kind of parties like Rex Club, but also, we

      id = chris-palmer-new-ears-resolution
  author = 
   title = chris-palmer-new-ears-resolution
    date = 
keywords = Nwachukwu; Palmer
 summary = After the session we''ll do a practical, where I actually take the track that you guys have done and master it to give you a better idea of exactly what goes on. Basically, what you''re trying to do as a mastering engineer is to get it as hot as possible, get it as balanced as possible onto digital format, or, if you''re doing records onto analog format without perceivably changing the mix. I mean, if you guys are going to spend like three weeks mixing a track, I don''t wanna go and change your sound in the two or three hours that I master it. I don''t know if any of you guys have worked with a channel splitter live, where you split the bass, mids and highs into separate signals, so that you can feed different amps to play your sound through.

      id = christian-rich
  author = 
   title = christian-rich
    date = 
keywords = Earl; Hassan; Kehinde; Schmidt; Taiwo
 summary = Since moving to Berlin two years ago, Rich have continued that upward trajectory, producing songs for Jaden Smith ("GHOST") and collaborating with Little Dragon and fellow Chicagoan Vic Mensa for "Dripping Summers," which will appear on a forthcoming Christian Rich project. And he was like, "Nah, it''s too pop, I want to go dark." So, it worked either way but, yeah, we were just jamming. We''re just sticking on the Earl thing because, not only was it a pretty important, changing moment, and not only is he a great radio host, as some of you might have heard out there, but I guess there''s a lot of changes that are going on at the same time, and maybe let''s listen to a little bit of this.

      id = chuck-d-truck-turner-strikes-again
  author = 
   title = chuck-d-truck-turner-strikes-again
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Enemy; Mao; New; Public; York; like
 summary = And on the album Goin'' Places, which had all the Jacksons moving, going forward, Michael included – because Michel Jackson''s a bad-ass motherf--er, I don''t care what anybody says – they had this song called "Music''s Taking Over," which starts off with this groove [sings], and this is the break part [does the beat]. That''s the holy trinity, it starts right there because their influence with the recordings, taking them and flipping them in their three different circles, went into other areas – and you''ve got to talk about Pete DJ Jones, guys like Maboya, and the big soundsystem DJs who came with the Jamaican aesthetic of two turntables and really manipulating disco/soul records. As a black man in the United States, I''ve never seen anything like this, but history tells me if he gets in, day two, be ready to work and to understand that the good and the bad is going to happen, with people looking at it the wrong way.

      id = clams-casino
  author = 
   title = clams-casino
    date = 
keywords = CASINO; clams
 summary = His work with A$AP Rocky pushed him there, but before that he''d been making beats for the hyperactive Lil B, including the anthem "I''m God," which spawned an entire subgenre of people sampling the same Imogen Heap track. In this short talk at the 2011 Red Bull Music Academy, he reflects on going from stalking rappers on Twitter to being on the receiving end of calls, the joys of flipping the same sample over and over again, and how he''s now trying to dodge the legal bullet by recreating the sounds himself. When I started sending stuff out online I was sending to this guy that was rapping with G-Unit and Mobb Deep at the time. He sent me a message like, "Yo, I wanna work with you." He gave me his number, I just started sending him stuff and it took off from there. Lil B sent him — I think he liked the "I''m God" beat a lot.

      id = clare-and-brent-fischer-keep-it-in-the-family
  author = 
   title = clare-and-brent-fischer-keep-it-in-the-family
    date = 
keywords = Brent; Clare; Fischer
 summary = [to audience] One thing you should know about my father, is that one of the ways in which he was able to become such a good writer is that when he was in high school he would play every single instrument in the orchestra. That made me able to absorb all the different things I saw him working with, not through personal experience of playing them myself, but learning how he had to write for an alto clarinet or the different possibilities with every little instrument in the orchestra, including some of the unusual ones that are his favourites. I sent it to him, he wrote the string arrangement, later on when we got the record back we found out they had changed a couple of key chord progressions at the end of the song. So we don''t have a lot of time left and one of the things I''d love to hear, and I think everybody else would, is some playing, some solo piano.

      id = claudio-coccoluto-come-si-dice-house-music
  author = 
   title = claudio-coccoluto-come-si-dice-house-music
    date = 
keywords = Coccoluto; Italy; Warren
 summary = From being the first European DJ to play at the Sound Factory in New York City to influencing people like Patrick Pulsinger, Claudio Coccoluto has been around the block more than a few times. Specifically, I think, I played modern electronic dance music with a lot of references to the past or to the future. Could you please tell us something about those times and how Italians actually started producing good electronic music massively and you heard Black Box and all that stuff? I think, if you look at the downloads on the web, there are a lot of people that need music. I don''t know if this might be record label dramatics but it''s got to be a strange time to be a dance music DJ. I don''t think that every musician is like this, but it''s very hard to speak with a person related with music in a strong way.

      id = claudio-rispoli
  author = 
   title = claudio-rispoli
    date = 
keywords = Member; Rispoli; Warren
 summary = Which kind of engendered this whole scene in Italian music called cosmic, which ended up being, it''s like the greatest secret that people don''t know about. We''re going to kind of chat through that whole period in Italian music history, your own personal background, and some of the things you''ve been doing over the last ten years with Jestofunk. They were playing very, very good music, like Philadelphia and Motown things. To fill the club you have to wait for the people that come from a long distance as well, like Milan or Rome. In order to understand how this club happened and what it was really like, it''s good to get an idea about the general Italian music scene, or club scene, before it started. Maybe to see the States you have to run away to a different place, or you have to take some car, drive or something like this, because New York I think is very European right now.

      id = claudio-simonetti-gothic-disco-godfather
  author = 
   title = claudio-simonetti-gothic-disco-godfather
    date = 
keywords = Nerattini; Simonetti; italian
 summary = In the ''80s he was a pioneer of Italo disco and before that he composed soundtracks for Italian horror films such as Suspiria and Dawn Of The Dead together with his progressive rock band, Goblin. You may know some of the movies he made soundtracks for, [with] Dario Argento, the horror director – Suspiria, Deep Red, Phenomena, and even George Romero, Dawn of the Dead. When we went on television to play this, we were like a white fly, because everyone was typical Italian singers and bands and we were so strange. Suspiria was very interesting because we worked for three months in the studio, using a lot of strange instruments like the Greek bouzouki, the Indian tabla and the Mellotron, a keyboard that uses pre-recorded tapes. The bass player Mario start a new Goblin, but with different music, no more horror films.

      id = clive-chin-come-in-my-kitchen
  author = 
   title = clive-chin-come-in-my-kitchen
    date = 
keywords = Chin; Clive; Jamaica; Mao
 summary = By just moving along with those musicians he got the idea, you know, these guys have so much talent, why not just take them into the studio and cut a record? and reggae – "Yeah, we know Jamaican music." Yes, Bob made it internationally, but the foundation of the music business actually started with a combination of instruments [brought by] the first set of people who came on the island other than the Arawak Indians – the Africans, the Europeans, the East Indians, the Haitians. And the reason for that is that they were all looking for an opportunity to go into the recording studio and be heard – whether they were going to be hired to play on a track, or they wanted to be brought in to express their musical talent.

      id = cluster-the-kosmische-couple
  author = 
   title = cluster-the-kosmische-couple
    date = 
keywords = Egon; Joachim; Roedelius
 summary = This talk, at the 2010 Red Bull Music Academy in London, takes in their earliest collaborations as Cluster, their work with Neu''s Michael Rother as Harmonia, their longstanding relationship with producer Conny Plank and their friendship with Brian Eno. Eothen "Egon" Alapatt When I was texting this producer on the label I manage, Madlib, and told him I''d be interviewing Cluster, he said, "That''s funny, I was just making a beat with a Cluster record, on Brain." Of course, some of the later work. This music, dark as it is, forces us, 40 years after it was created, to look back and say things like, "That you must have been influenced by the Gruppo di Nuova Consonanza in Rome because the techniques, the way you were recording, the styles were similar." And you say you weren''t even aware of the group.

      id = cosey-fanni-tutti-visceral-sounds
  author = 
   title = cosey-fanni-tutti-visceral-sounds
    date = 
keywords = Chris; Fanni; Tutti; Warren
 summary = So, I grew up through my teens, having that kind of attitude to it that music stirred feelings within you and it wasn''t just a means of just dancing the night away, getting out of your head, then going home, working through the week or going to college, and next weekend doing the same thing. We have kind of talked a bit about Throbbing Gristle and those people in the audience who don''t necessarily know the music might get an idea of the sort of extremities of it, as well. While we''re on stage with TG it''s used and I''ve seen reviews afterwards saying, "Sleazy was great on that." And I was thinking, "Actually, he was drinking his wine at that point and it was my guitar, but never mind." And that''s the kind of thing that happens within TG, you don''t know who does what, and that''s the way we like it.

      id = cosmo-mystic-bounce
  author = 
   title = cosmo-mystic-bounce
    date = 
keywords = Reich
 summary = Next, as the legendary DJ became a friend and musical mentor to Cosmo, she began spinning at The Loft alongside people such as François K, Lil Louis, Danny Krivit and managed the original Dancetracks record store with Joe Claussell by day. People would call in and ask me, "Can you put me on the phone with somebody that knows about music?" Obviously, if it was a guy, that wouldn''t happen. When I was doing my radio show, mixing live and engineering the whole show myself, announcing, answering the phones, people would call and say, "Tell the DJ he''s doing a great job." I mean, all these things. How would you explain the difference between a radio and a club set to the DJs in this room? You need to explain these things to the management and to the people that work there, "You open as a club, as a music venue, and you don''t care about the sound!

      id = craig-leon
  author = 
   title = craig-leon
    date = 
keywords = Bächer; Craig; Leon; Moog; New
 summary = Actually, I started working in a TV station, playing… just, it would be live when guys would try and sell corn on the radio and stuff to the farmers, I would play country music on a piano, while they were doing it, a live advert and I''d pick up some money, on the weekends. The guy at the radio station new a studio down in Miami where, in the summer, when I was off school, I went down and worked, because I knew how to write music, obviously, so I would chart out things – you know, very simple stuff. From there, I was introduced to a producer from New York, named Richie Gottehrer who was involved with a lot of old things, old, old, old, he wrote a lot of old hits like girl group stuff, in the Phil Spector time, "My Boyfriend''s Back" and all this.

      id = cut-chemist-and-hymnal-bring-the-funky-sermon
  author = 
   title = cut-chemist-and-hymnal-bring-the-funky-sermon
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Chemist; Cut; Mao; Member; like; record
 summary = They were like, "Who''s this little new jack-white y''know…" That was back in a time where there were no white DJs. There certainly weren''t any 12-year-old white DJs. So I did have that going for me but I got crushed in the finals. When you guys finally signed or got your records picked up by the labels and things, at the time you said it was a dark time, it was a difficult time for underground artists in Los Angeles but I think it also became a fertile time because there was other likeminded people. Let''s talk a little bit about some of the challenges of playing out a record like this, speaking of breaks and samples, on a major label. Let''s break our heads open a little bit, but at the end of the day, we''re all going to a better place." I think in a lot of ways, that is one of the top-five signature things that makes underground music, underground music, is that desire for transcendence.

      id = daf-lecture
  author = 
   title = daf-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Bächer; Delgado; Görl; López
 summary = And yes, we were a little weird and sang in German and talked to the people in German, so the English were a little surprised, sure, but it quickly turned into some sort of hype in London with DAF: "That''s a strange group, they play electronic music, they play the drums, they scream in German, we don''t understand a word of it." But it had an expressionistic power to it. It was important for us to shape history and culture and I thought, "Great, we really made it." And I was really happy when in 1986 house music was popular, and I got to know some of these people and they told me, "Kraftwerk and DAF, yeah." That feedback, you know, ten years later you get it in a different way, I think that''s great.

      id = dam-funk-funk-reverence
  author = 
   title = dam-funk-funk-reverence
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Funk; Jeff; Mao
 summary = Headquartered in the Culver City section of Los Angeles, Damon Riddick has helmed a renaissance of boogie, modern soul and electro-funk – from his storied Monday-night Funkmosphere parties to his boundary-breaking remix work. In his 2010 Red Bull Music Academy lecture, the "Ambassador of Boogie Funk" talks about his favorite records, the joys of vintage synths and why it''s important to stand for something. Coast hip-hop stuff, you had to have some funk, like "Atomic Dog" or that kind of thing. Dynasty, Midnight Star, a lot of people, but the point is he actually was the bass player and the writer of songs like More soulful vocals than anybody I have heard out right now, and it just shows… If you guys hook up with somebody and you know somebody that is good in your neighborhood, or an older cat, or if you are a producer, give them a shot.

      id = damo-suzuki
  author = 
   title = damo-suzuki
    date = 
keywords = Damo; Mistry; Suzuki
 summary = I think it was really good because I born as Japanese, but that is not a meaning I must all the time, all life long stay like a Japanese. That''s why I like this kind of a platform, all the time we improvise things. Some of the promoters did already maybe ten more times arranged my show, they''re going to make some problem with me because they know that I make many different things. We make some special moment and this is for me really humanlike, because long time before we begin with the music this way to communicate with another people, but I don''t think at that time we made our music, just a different kind of folks is on the hill and making some signal with smoke. It''s much more interesting to make music itself because everybody would be creating so many different things because you don''t have to learn how to play guitar or something like that.

      id = dangelo
  author = 
   title = dangelo
    date = 
keywords = D''Angelo; George; Nelson; Richmond; like
 summary = I saw the tapes of you touring Europe and I''ve seen you play here in the States, and it does seem like what you''re doing now and where you''re going musically for the future, the guitar and the idea of that, it''s much more prominent. In the past you''ve talked a lot about your church background, but I wanted to jump to another aspect of your development, which is a lot of people don''t know that you were in a hip-hop band, hip-hop group. When she got hip to the fact that my ear was that good she was like, I''m going to send you to this guy named Russell somebody, who worked at VCU. [applause] There''s an introductory song called "Four." [sings beat] I was like, "All right, I''m going to see what language he speaks." It was some African communication drum thing, and I did it.

      id = daniele-baldelli-elevator-ride
  author = 
   title = daniele-baldelli-elevator-ride
    date = 
keywords = Baia; Baldelli; Italy; Luca
 summary = Italy''s equivalent to pioneering New York disco gods Francis Grasso, David Mancuso and Nicky Siano, Baldelli went from selecting rock, funk and soul 45s in ''69 on the Adriatic coast to playing soul, reggae and muscular disco at seminal club Baia Degli Angeli, deep in the heart of Cattolica club land. When people asked me, "What is your job?" I answered, "I play records in this club." I had no mixer, no headphones, nothing. I was playing black music or rhythm & blues in the first place, records from people like Joe Tex, Rufus Thomas, Ann Peebles, Wilson Pickett, Etta James and James Brown, of course. I remember in that moment about late ''60s, early ''70s there was something like a rule inside the clubs that you had to play three fast tracks and then three slow tracks. So, you started playing Baia Degli Angeli in ''77, sort of the high pitch of disco music in Italy.

      id = danny-brown
  author = 
   title = danny-brown
    date = 
keywords = Brown; Collins; Danny; Detroit; Hattie
 summary = In this public conversation with journalist Hattie Collins as part of the 2015 Red Bull Music Academy UK Tour, Brown opened up about growing up a nerd in a tough inner city, creative responsibility, writing a children''s book and wanting to be the Trent Reznor of rap. I was like, "I rap too." Then I played him some of my songs and he was like, "You''re fucking dope." Hearing a nigger with the east coast accent, like, "Yo son, this shit is dope son." That was the closest shit to New York I had so I was like, "Yeah, you''re right." Then I remember one day we was watching TV and then a contest for MTV came on. couch surfing and doing things like that, I remember there was a time when I had to wait till the whole house goes to sleep for me to even start to try to write a rap because it was too much going on.

      id = danny-krivit-edit-innit
  author = 
   title = danny-krivit-edit-innit
    date = 
keywords = Janson; Krivit; Member
 summary = finally got it right, but after I did it, I felt like I''d handled the tape so much that it kind of lost a lot of its quality. And coupled with, youn know, things like bootleg records, their quality wasn''t that good. What would really accentuate the high points in it?" I don''t want to change a record just to change it, but sometimes things cry out to me like, "I just wish it did more this or it didn''t do that," a little rearrangement. There''ve been other songs that, I remember when I really wanted to do an edit of "I Know You, I Live You" Chaka Khan and I did a very simple one back in the ''80s and I just felt uncomfortable with all the different changes. Don''t you feel like these artists who get re-edited and get all these facelifts for their songs will actually be somewhat thankful for people doing it because it brings their music back?

      id = danny-wang-knock-knock-balihus-there
  author = 
   title = danny-wang-knock-knock-balihus-there
    date = 
keywords = Daniel; Janson; Member; Wang; music
 summary = A lot of those lessons, in a very naïve way what people put together as disco music in the ''70s is probably the closest thing we''ll ever get to that because when you look at everything from ABBA to the most basic like Van McCoy, "The Hustle." We''re going to play that in a minute. For people like us who are so deeply in music, especially who want a beat and everything, I think we''re in a great position to appreciate this kind of stuff. All right, now we''re getting into some have issues, too, like, "Is there such a thing as absolute beauty." In music, I have to say there is, and we''re going to move on to this. We know now some things on this scale harmonize better than other notes with a scale like [plays keyboard], right?

      id = darren-aronofsky-lecture
  author = 
   title = darren-aronofsky-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Aronofsky; Darren; New; Schmidt; Torsten
 summary = I was lucky to get the tail end of the 70s, so I did get something like Saturday Night Fever, which became this phenomenon, but was definitely an underground film, and probably is more connected in some ways to Taxi Driver than it is connected to E.T. That was sort of what came next, was the Star Wars, E.T., Jaws, which was a great time to grow up around movies, as a kid. Just about when he gets started, union comes in and shuts the thing down, and he just takes the sheet music and puts it into this really lovely leather pouch with a [makes breathing sound] There was just one second that always will stick with West Side Story in a way, of what it must be like working with actors of a great caliber.

      id = darshan-jesrani-metro-area-lecture
  author = 
   title = darshan-jesrani-metro-area-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Jesrani; NWACHUKWU
 summary = Originally, he wanted to start a house music label called Metro Area. So I really got into my music and spent a lot of time with like-minded people who are also really into music. I feel like a little bit of a unification of my history and my music. When you put a record on, when you have a piece of music that is actually creating a very effective mood or atmosphere, it''s really changing the environment in some way. Yeah, I''m working on a remix and Morgan and I just started some new Metro Area stuff. This issue became apparent to me when I worked on a remix for Hugh Masekela''s song "Mama." When people are remixing today, they will usually take some samples of the original and record a whole new track.

      id = dave-smith-tokyo-2014
  author = 
   title = dave-smith-tokyo-2014
    date = 
keywords = Dave; MIDI; Schmidt; Smith; Torsten
 summary = The Bay-Area based engineer also founded Sequential Circuits, worked with Korg and Yamaha and, as if that weren''t enough, he heads up Dave Smith Instruments, who create popular synths like the Tempest, the Tetra, and of course the Prophet 08. We are in good spirits that the gentleman sitting next to me will actually help us trying to figure out where that noise is coming from, because he knows a little bit about noise and stuff. going like, "Yeah, but how do I actually make it sound good?" How did you People think there are millions of Minimoogs, but I think there are only like 12,000 or 13,000 built, which is, in the world of musical instruments, not a huge number. the Roland products came out, everybody kind of laughed at them and said, "That doesn''t sound anything like these things.

      id = david-matthews-get-on-the-good-foot
  author = 
   title = david-matthews-get-on-the-good-foot
    date = 
keywords = DAVID; EGON; EOTHEN; James; MATTHEWS
 summary = From a quiet, sleepy existence in rural Kentucky, to filling in charts for the minister of the heavy funk, James Brown, David Matthews was working at the right hand side of the man who was to redefine modern music forever. Bud Hobgood, his title was the "coordinating producer for James Brown productions." The company that was involved with rhythm & blues music in America at that time, probably the biggest company in America, was King Records. So some of the technical aspects – he watched how I did it, writing out the whole thing in terms of when James said, "Arrange such and such a song." I really like Fred, he''s a good friend. He wrote for the guy in his band that was going to play it, and I''ve done that with everything, including the James Brown stuff and everything else.

      id = david-rodigan-2012-lecture
  author = 
   title = david-rodigan-2012-lecture
    date = 
keywords = BENJI; Bob; Jamaica; Rodigan; Tubby
 summary = At 15 years old, David Rodigan started DJing at school dances and youth clubs – and in his early ''60s, he still doesn''t show any signs of slowing down. In a 2012 public interview with DJ Benji B in the VIP room of London''s infamous club, Fabric, Rodigan reflected on his first trip to Kingston, meeting Bob Marley, playing on the radio in Jamaica, and much more. respect shown to the music which I''ve spent my whole life playing and loving. He said, "I love Jamaica." I think it would be hard not to like his assistant engineer at the time, I said, "I''ve come to cut some dubplates." want to come upstairs and listen to a new song I''ve just recorded?" I went like the mix," which I did, he said, "I''ll play it for you tomorrow night." He when they''re clashing someone like yourself that''s playing dubs from artists

      id = dbridge-many-rivers-to-cross
  author = 
   title = dbridge-many-rivers-to-cross
    date = 
keywords = Bad; Company; Dwyer; Nick; thing
 summary = Definitely, I think I used to look forward to every Sunday like, "OK, what am I going to get surprised by now?" That was a good thing about that night, it was just really eclectic. So stepping out on your own is like, "OK, do people get what it is that I''m about, and are they going to get my interpretation of this music?" For a while I had a confidence problem because [with] Bad Company, I stepped away around two, three years ago, just around the time of Shot Down On Safari, which was our last big album. Yeah, exactly, but I think since I''ve moved over to the digital world, it''s like noticing I have to work a lot harder to get my mixes sounding how I would want them to sound, whereas before, I was using the dedicated sampler and the E-Mu had a certain quality to it, and it was going through the desk.

      id = deadbeat-sine-of-the-times
  author = 
   title = deadbeat-sine-of-the-times
    date = 
keywords = Schmidt; Torsten; deadbeat; sort; thing
 summary = Certainly for the solo stuff, because there''s been such a diverse range of environments that I''ve gotten to perform in in recent years, it''s demanded that I try and find some way of being able to change directions on a dime if need be, because you can walk into a place and assume that you know what the context is going to be and what people are going to want to hear, oftentimes, people will let you know very, very vocally if you''ve gone the wrong direction. I think that it''s really interesting generally to start seeing different band projects and that sort of thing who are expanding the context, or the concept, of musicians as opposed to having bass, drums, guitar, and keyboard player.

      id = dengue-dengue-dengue-tokyo-2014
  author = 
   title = dengue-dengue-dengue-tokyo-2014
    date = 
keywords = Cumbia; Dengue; Dwyer; Lima
 summary = The highly contagious duo of Rafael Pereira and RBMA grad Felipe Salmon, better known as Dengue Dengue Dengue!, have brought a new level of tropical madness to the cumbia world, fusing modern production savvy with traditional rhythms. In their 2014 Red Bull Music Academy about humorous visuals, the duo talked cumbia, psychedelic masks, ayahuasca ceremonies, and more. introduce them to you all is, I think when you come from a city like Lima and other about the whole Cumbia side of things, I think we ought to get a little bit of local music became like, a thing in the pop culture as well. Yeah, but I just want to play another thing that is like after that, and it Well, Lima''s always been, I think, behind the whole music thing. Yeah, I think there were a lot of people doing the same thing at the same

      id = dennis-bovell-bass-culture
  author = 
   title = dennis-bovell-bass-culture
    date = 
keywords = BOVELL; FERGUS; Linton; London; MURPHY; audience
 summary = Unfortunately, I couldn''t name everyone, so at the end I say [adopts toasting style], "If you never get this message accept this apology." [laughs] The reason why it''s still at the drawing board stage, why it''s never been released, is because I played it to my good friend, the poet Linton Kwesi Johnson, and he said, "I don''t like that song. And I''d look in the reggae charts at the Top 20 and say to myself, "Yeah, I got fourteen in there." But I was exposed by a guy, who was supposed to be my friend, who went [affects angry voice], "Dennis, it''s you, we''ve got to tell people it''s you." And I did a program for the BBC called Rockschool where I let them film me doing the drums one time, playing the bass another time, playing the keyboard another time, guitar, doing the vocals, I was the engineer and I let them show it on TV and I was exposed.

      id = dennis-coffey-six-string-horoscope
  author = 
   title = dennis-coffey-six-string-horoscope
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Coffey; Mao; Motown
 summary = So, I''m sitting in the studio, saying, "Let me hear what''s going on," and I hear this track and say: "I don''t remember getting paid for this session." I talked to him at the R&B Foundation gala in Philadelphia about four weeks ago, because that was the first time I had a chance to talk to him, and he said, "We didn''t get paid either. So, once you got out of the service, you went back to Detroit, playing in the clubs and things like that... But for someone who didn''t have a hit, maybe they''re saying, "Why don''t you have a hit?" So, we started two-and-a-half hours a night, four nights a week, and within a few weeks Norman Whitfield, the producer, came in with this song "Cloud Nine", and by that time I was playing funk in the clubs and I had wah-wah pedals, and distortion and all the effects.

      id = derrick-may-it-is-what-it-isnt
  author = 
   title = derrick-may-it-is-what-it-isnt
    date = 
keywords = DERRICK; Detroit; Member; Schmidt; TORSTEN
 summary = Ten years ago, I think we would have been talking about rave music and trying to preserve techno, and trying to keep what was Detroit''s intention, and who is this guy named Paul Oakenfold, and why is he becoming popular? "Man, I got so much respect for a man like that…" And you know, there I was, a little young crusader, fighting for the good in techno, and everything that Mike Banks told us, and everything that the holy trinity of Transmat, and there you are bigging up Mark Spoon up for shagging a bird while you''re playing records. So I ended up moving in with Juan and his grandmother at that time and that''s really when the connection about the music started because what we used to do, and it might seem like some sort of romantic fairy tale, it''s not, and I wouldn''t even begin to tell you one because you''re not here for that.

      id = dev-hynes-lecture
  author = 
   title = dev-hynes-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Dev; Hynes; Martin; New
 summary = People ask me if I''m making an album and I usually say no because I just have a bunch of these ideas, but then there''ll be a period where something will click in my head and then I start mixing, and editing and I always feel like that''s the actual period when I''m making the album because the idea is I don''t want to say easy, because it''s not necessarily easy but the ideas are very free, and they kind of just come to me and then it''s the meshing it together. I think that has affected me a lot actually, and it''s probably part of why a lot of the time I write things in my head, because I never really had instruments to play stuff on.

      id = digital-roots-rocker
  author = 
   title = digital-roots-rocker
    date = 
keywords = DIGITAL; DWYER; NICK
 summary = In 1994 I''d done my thing with Danny C, but in 1995 I did my first solo release on Timeless called "Spacefunk", my first track, and people were just going mental about it and it got played for about four years. And I think that''s important, because even now you get new artists trying to copy what''s going on on the scene and it becomes throwaway tracks. Originally, I think drum & bass was a bit reggae-influenced, a lot of soul, quite happy music. First of all, I got the drums, thought these are interesting, bit African sounding, and I just wanted to make some happy tune that people could jump around and enjoy themselves to rather than nodding their head and looking upset about something.

      id = dixon-and-gerd-janson
  author = 
   title = dixon-and-gerd-janson
    date = 
keywords = Gerd; Janson; Kakaire
 summary = So I do think actually that''s maybe something that I learned over the years, that you should not be too fast, or should not run through your career or your life in general, and you should reflect a little bit about it, and very often when a door was opened that was the moment for me to reflect on it. I''d love to talk a little bit about spaces, I think this is a nice moment to take a diversion because I know that for both of you, as DJ''s, you had the opportunity to hone your skills, hone your taste and I guess hone your ability to read the interaction that you''re having with people as residents in particular spaces. I think that''s also where the times have changed dramatically because people also want to see, of course, different DJs. I think this kind of thing, playing every week in one club every Friday or every Saturday might work in some places, some spaces around the world, but I think people would be bored now after a while.

      id = dixon-deep-impact
  author = 
   title = dixon-deep-impact
    date = 
keywords = Berlin; Sweeney
 summary = They basically came to me, just some DJs that were coming from the jazz scene but were highly influenced by the electronic scene in the mid-''90s so they decided OK we have a lot of knowledge in jazz and old stuff but when it comes to house music there might be someone in Berlin that has a better clue, so they came to me and asked me if I would join the company in an A&R way and it was not like I had it on paper or had a card that I could offer to people, and I didn''t have a payment or something it was just like a small company and we all liked each other and was like OK, "What do you think about that?

      id = dizzee-rascal-lecture
  author = 
   title = dizzee-rascal-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Dizzee; Jones; Rascal
 summary = Before we talk about the Boy in da Corner album, I want to take it to back in the day, and I want to know where you first discovered how talented you was. Rinse FM and Deja kind of came later, but that''s when I started really becoming Dizzee Rascal and people started to know who I was and that. OK, so the Boy in da Corner album, obviously no one had heard anything that sounded like that. So for the shows, I''m going to do this, and then put Korn at the end of this, so that everyone moshes." That''s when we got into, "OK, we can get that thing that you like, replayed." So if you hear the end of "Sirens," that is just basically "Here to Stay" being replayed. I mean, you see other people doing their thing, then you''re like, "Oh shit!

      id = dj-dahi
  author = 
   title = dj-dahi
    date = 
keywords = Dahi; Soulscape
 summary = First of all, I just want to ask personally, I wonder what it feels like to have like global hits as a producer, ''cause you''ve been working as a producer for a long time and of course we do know about your hits like Drake''s or Kendrick Lamar''s, but you''ve been making beats not for the commercial purpose but your own, right, so I just wonder. The "My Type of Party" beat, actually I was sitting in my dorm room, ''cause I was working at a school, and I was just making a bunch of beats and ideas and so I went to, like the next week or so, I went to Dom''s studio and we all kind of sat in a room and everybody''s chillin'' hanging out. There are sometimes that I run out of ideas, or I''m only listening in a certain way, but if someone plays me something cool I''ll be like, "Oh that…"It kind of opens up a new way of thinking about the song.

      id = dj-drama-don-cannon
  author = 
   title = dj-drama-don-cannon
    date = 
keywords = Cannon; Drama; Grillz; Pemberton
 summary = I felt like okay, people are familiar with DJ Drama, so regardless of what''s going on in my life at the time, here''s a mixtape, here''s a platform for me to speak because I don''t rap. One thing that I don''t feel like I do enough when people ask me that question is give credit to Green Lantern and Whoo Kid. I''d say from ''99 to ''04, ''05, before our reign, for me, all we did was, whether it was Green Lantern and his creativity or Whoo Kid and his marketing genius and the way he changed the game from just a mixtape to 8-page panels and sponsors. I had gotten a phone call, and just like, "Yo, I got this new artist, and I want to bring him through, give him one of your mixtapes." I didn''t even know how the guy who turned out to be Jason Geter had even had my number.

      id = dj-harvey-disco-cartels-bad-lieutenant
  author = 
   title = dj-harvey-disco-cartels-bad-lieutenant
    date = 
keywords = Harvey; Janson; Member
 summary = Known to some as the bloke who played early hours at Ministry Of Sound and to others as the driving force behind the Black Cock re-edit label and Map of Africa, he''s a cult icon to the crowd who look back on the disco era as the birth of dance. I was in a band called Ersatz, which means cheap substitute, and we had a single out on our own little label Leisure Sounds in about 1979, and John Peel liked us and played the track a couple of times. Then we – that''s me and my partner Gerry Rooney – went onto release I think seven volumes of the Black Cock re-edits of various disco stuff and obscure cosmic, Balearic, whatever you want to call it music.

      id = dj-magic-mike-boot-the-bass
  author = 
   title = dj-magic-mike-boot-the-bass
    date = 
keywords = MIKE; TORSTEN; magic
 summary = The Orlando native has one platinum and five gold albums under his belt and has been described by Vibe magazine as "the best platinum-selling artist you''ve never heard of." Take a trip to the world of car shows, bass bins, booties and sustained 808 with the real Flo-rida in this lecture from the 2004 Red Bull Music Academy. So please tell us: Florida, the South East and all that, what is bass music to start with, and what role does Orlando play in it? You kind of said that you brought your thing, because you didn''t want to sound like everyone else in Miami. Some DJs started playing these records in clubs as well because people liked the sound of the songs in a club.

      id = dj-premier-you-know-my-steez
  author = 
   title = dj-premier-you-know-my-steez
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Mao; Premier; like; record
 summary = He actually told me that the hip-hop thing wasn''t going to work before he died but, that''s why I got a tattoo done on my arm, "Told you I was gonna do it." I never let that discourage me because he was just like, "That''s just a noise," he was just from that generation of not understanding the language and the lifestyle, but I was part of that lifestyle and when that started to develop I really, really wanted to get down with hip-hop. So, I rented one of the rooms out to Charles because he was more of a pop producer and DJ, he was on the radio for 11 years and he knows his hip-hop as well and he said… I''m really into titles and naming the albums and things like that and I told him I wanted to call it No Talent Required because that''s how I felt about all of these people doing Serato

      id = dj-radar-radar-of-the-lost-art
  author = 
   title = dj-radar-radar-of-the-lost-art
    date = 
keywords = NERATTINI; Radar
 summary = On collaborations such as Private Parts with DJ Z-Trip (from the era-defining Return Of The DJ compilations) through to his work on the Deep Concentration series, Radar has consistently pushed the limits of turntable music, incorporating sounds, samples and influences that aren''t necessarily thought of as staple hip-hop sources. From there he began collaborating with kindred spirits such as Mario Caldato Jr. and Money Mark as well as combining turntables with a live orchestra, and creating a written, musical language for scratch notation. Back to your question, as writing music for it, I think if you''re real methodical about it, you''re like: "This is what I want to do," you got to realise that there are real limitations to a turntable. Yeah, it took a lot of practicing, ''cause I was like: "Well, how am I going to do this?" I had rough sketches and stuff, and I just wanted to experiment with that, Antimatter.

      id = dj-rashad-dj-spinn-windy-city-boom
  author = 
   title = dj-rashad-dj-spinn-windy-city-boom
    date = 
keywords = DAVIDE; RASHAD; SPINN
 summary = When the footwork craze first erupted out of Chicago, few were able to put names to the music behind the wild dancing. In this riveting lecture at the 2011 Red Bull Music Academy, they reflect on the origins of juke and footwork, look at where it''s at now and claim that it''s high time urban music''s major players came calling. We were playing old-school house, the Trax Records, Dance Mania, if you guys are familiar with that. By the time we got to meet each other officially in ''95 in high school, we''d already seen each other in parties and stuff. as people wanting to like our music and show respect for what they did before People were like, "Play some footwork, man." "What?" But when you heard that a history dance music is, "Yeah, I''m a DJ, so I think like a DJ, so I produce

      id = dj-red-alert-reel-recognize-reel
  author = 
   title = dj-red-alert-reel-recognize-reel
    date = 
keywords = Alert; Bronx; Red; record
 summary = We hear about the records that rocked the block parties, the equipment that was used to blow up the sound, the local stars who thrilled the streets and how hip-hop was pimped from day one by a pizza parlour boy who cribbed rhymes from his friend to make the first record. I''d like to start by taking it back to where you''re from, the Bronx, and let people know about that. When I started having friends, they''d come over to my grandparents'' house and hear the music they were playing, and they''d say: "Your grandmother''s from Jamaica?" "What''re you talking about? A little later on, there were some people coming from the radio station, 98.7 Kiss FM, they were hearing so much about The Roxy they came down, a guy by the name of Barry Mayo who was the programme director at the time, he

      id = dj-storm-lecture
  author = 
   title = dj-storm-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Kemi; Schmidt; storm
 summary = I think then, Kemistry & Storm started getting a little bit of notoriety, and obviously Goldie started making tunes with Reinforced, and people just used to say to us, "Do you know that crazy guy from Wolverhampton with the gold teeth?" And we''d be like, "No. Who is he?" You know what I mean? To kind of see the way social media has changed things and almost you see some artists now be packaged you know… they become… I think the producer/DJ changed a lot of things, because obviously when vinyl was really, big back in the day, when we started Metalheadz, you know, when we finally got established, we were maybe selling 50,000 to 75,000 pieces of vinyl per release, so the engineer at home was happy with that money.

      id = dj-toomp-there-it-is
  author = 
   title = dj-toomp-there-it-is
    date = 
keywords = Atlanta; Chairman; Mao; Toomp
 summary = I am crazy about his orchestration and the way he put things together, as far as the strings, that''s why with my songs you may hear a lot of orchestration like the horns and strings because that is a big Barry White influence. So, I took him to the studio, we developed this sound, and the next thing you know, I started playing the demo to different people, and this guy named KP from LaFace, he heard it and fell in love with it. I knew he was already aware of me and my work because of the T.I. situation, so LA came to the studio and sat with me for like two hours, and I was blown away by that, just by him showing up in the heart of south-west Atlanta to come kick it with me just to hear my music, and I ended up getting a ten-song deal with Def Jam Records.

      id = dj-vibe
  author = 
   title = dj-vibe
    date = 
keywords = Martin; Vibe
 summary = We''ve got a little pile of records here and we''re going to work through them, play music and talk about history and the stories of how Portuguese club music evolved. Tell me about those other DJs that you would go and see because this is like early to mid-''80s, you''re a young teenager, what kind of music is being played in clubs, if this is happening before house music even exists? What got into your head where you thought, "I want to try doing something a little bit different?" Do you remember what kind of records you might''ve heard that made you think that maybe people could dance to something other than the pop and rock music that they''re used to? I went there to buy some music for the opening of the club and when I could start to play the acid house in Alcântara I always keep the last hour to show them the new stuff.

      id = domu-ruling-the-breaks-breaking-the-rules
  author = 
   title = domu-ruling-the-breaks-breaking-the-rules
    date = 
keywords = Domu; Dwyer; Nick; music
 summary = Carl Cox used to play a rough kind of Amen [break] bleepy rave track and then play a really stupid chipmunk record [sings high-pitched melody], you know, with fast pianos, and it was all the same thing because it was a primitive music and it hadn''t been established. I''ll start with this Ragga Twins, because there was a fusion – there was hip-house in the late ''80s, which was kind of relevant to people who liked jacking Chicago and New York house music with rapping over the top, like Doug Lazy and things like that. Was it pretty strange feeling for you at this stage going from doing Sonar Circle, and you''re even struggling to get people to play this form of drum & bass, to making this record that sounded so fresh and new, and all of a sudden you''ve got people like Gilles Peterson and Patrick Forge going, "Oh yeah!" 

      id = don-buchla-passing-the-acid-test
  author = 
   title = don-buchla-passing-the-acid-test
    date = 
keywords = Buchla; Don; MIDI; Schmidt; Torsten; like; thing
 summary = It''s not like today where you go, "Oh yeah, I want to model something like that and I want to program something that follows this example." You were starting out with much more simple, basic technology when it was about the idea… or in another way, when did you think about the possibilities within creating sound electronically, not to use the word artificially? It''s kind of ironic to realize you''ve got like the San Francisco counter culture of the ''60s there and all the things that provided all that fun, from mobile phones and computers and stuff, are still so highly dependent on military technology funding, really. Like, downstairs, for example, we have a limiter compressor thing, which uses photo cells and I understand that you guys were using a lot of that early photo technology as well in creating sounds?

      id = don-letts-punk-politics
  author = 
   title = don-letts-punk-politics
    date = 
keywords = Clash; Don; Emma; Letts; Warren
 summary = Then I read in the music press: "Don Letts is filming a punk rock movie." I thought, "That''s a good idea, I''ll call it a movie." [Laughter] Stuck the shit together, showed it at the ICA. Let''s be clear – I do know there are lots of young people out there who don''t play by these rules and work outside that framework, and are actually doing something constructive, but it ain''t what you see in the charts and see on MTV. Mick Jones'' band after The Clash was called Big Audio Dynamite and our thing was Jamaican basslines, New York beats, Mick''s rock & roll guitar, and me taking care of dialogue and samples. People talk about the dialogue, but I wanted to justify my space so I got my lyrical head together, started writing lyrics, and came at it from a film perspective, like scripts or treatments.

      id = doom-lecture
  author = 
   title = doom-lecture
    date = 
keywords = CHAIRMAN; DOOM; JEFF; MAO
 summary = In this career-long examination of his art and life at the 2011 Red Bull Music Academy, he talks about triumph and tragedy with KMD, rebirth as the masked avenger, the differences between his band of many men, working with Madlib and why he draws inspiration from real life rather than rap music. There was a time in hip-hop when things started going from my Nowadays, I think things kind of got more serious with hip-hop to where it needs more of that. of records, people know where to come to get the quality that they''re looking I don''t really listen to current hip-hop where I know who is who, to the point where I''d say, "I want a beat from this dude, I''d like to work with this cat." Usually, I''ll hear So a lot of the times when I''m under the gun like that, I tend to come up with that kind of thing.

      id = dr-peter-zinovieff-the-original-tectonic-sounds
  author = 
   title = dr-peter-zinovieff-the-original-tectonic-sounds
    date = 
keywords = Peter; Schmidt; Torsten; Zinovieff
 summary = Geologist, librettist and adventurer in sound and music, Dr Peter Zinovieff was the first person to own a home computer – or rather a computer at home, as his huge device is unrecognizable from the modern PC or Mac. At EMS he helped design and build the acclaimed VCS and Synthi series, which have now become the stuff of legend and the dreams of collectors. In his 2010 Red Bull Music Academy lecture, Zinovieff talks about the connections between his science and his art, discusses how to harness randomness and talks about the time he tried to get an implant in his arm connecting his muscles to the music. Thousands of times a second, yes, to make a piece like this. It seems like an idea that a lot of people are talking about. But, in a way, it''s like saying a lot of people have a good

      id = dre-skull-lecture
  author = 
   title = dre-skull-lecture
    date = 
keywords = BORTOT; DAVIDE; Kartel; Skull
 summary = Raised to the sounds of the East Coast underground freak-punk scene, Dre Skull perceives urban music culture as a holistic affair and follows the paths of Don Was, Rick Rubin and Heavy D in terms of working with artists from various fields. dancehall producers, working with the likes of Beenie Man, Vybz Kartel, Popcaan and some guy called broadly, for me, working with these dancehall artists is making popular music. like I went, naturally I know how to make pop music and that''s what I''m going Kartel, say, or working with dancehall artists, I feel pretty good about the of times a big artist album is pretty much like a collection of their biggest pop songs, very much in a dancehall context but I feel like he has a lot of... Through working with Kartel, I think you changed your sound a lot and maybe

      id = dylan-carlson-lecture
  author = 
   title = dylan-carlson-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Bächer; Carlson; Earth
 summary = I had recently moved back to Seattle from Olympia where I started Earth in ''89 and then Joe Preston, who was in the band, was originally from Eugene, Oregon so he had a lot of, I guess, friends, connections, etc. My previous bands, I guess were less conceptual but this being the third time around I had, you know, sort of specific things I wanted to do… So, yeah this... It''s open in a lot of ways, but it''s also, because I''m the main songwriter and the main guy I guess, sign the checks at the end of the day and all that [laughs] I generally try not to control people. Bruce Gilbert who was doing a thing, DJ Bumblebee, liked to use Earth too apparently as part of his records that he was DJing, but yeah, apparently we had acquired a following amongst I guess the noisier end of electronic music folks.

      id = ed-handley-dancegate-crasher
  author = 
   title = ed-handley-dancegate-crasher
    date = 
keywords = HANDLEY; TORSTEN
 summary = It was sort of typical "sit in your bedroom for hours, don''t ever go out, lead a completely introvert life and just write music constantly." I think it was escaping from fairly dull jobs. So in a way, I think it made my job easier because I started to see computers as a friendly thing rather than just this thing that''s for making money and working for a boss. And actually, slowly sort of educating ourselves with music that does use different time signatures rather than everything being 4/4. I think a lot of the European electronic music via the sort of American producers who we were getting influenced by. When you got stuff that can be remixed in 5.1, which is originally done on one simple stereo recording track, you''re obviously changing the nature of the sound very heavily. Yeah, I think with that one it sounded like the original break form, the sort of basis of the rhythm, of the syncopation.

      id = edgar-wright-lecture
  author = 
   title = edgar-wright-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Baby; Brian; Driver; Edgar; Member; Reitzell; Wright; like
 summary = Literally, it was released a couple of months before I started shooting Shaun of the Dead and basically, even like 10 years later, people would still like be posting it on the Internet like it was a new video and I think even it crops up in one of The Mighty Boosh DVDs. It actually ended up being a help because then by the time I was thinking about actually doing the movie, when I started talking about it more seriously like 10 years ago, especially in like 2010 after Scott Pilgrim came out, this video was still sort of in the ether and there was even a funny thing, like I remember the LA Film Festival in 2010, I did this like talk of clips from my movies and J.J. Abrams was moderating and he said, "Hey, can we share that getaway driver music video that you did," and I said, "Yeah."

      id = efdemin-dial-b-for-berlin
  author = 
   title = efdemin-dial-b-for-berlin
    date = 
keywords = Efdemin; Janson
 summary = It changed my production a bit, having all these people around and all these opportunities to play and to put out records and get in touch with so many people, I focused more on dance music, because before I was always doing other things. minimal." "Yeah, but I''m playing house music right now." "We want minimal." I like minimalistic music very much, I always try to get these two parts together because in the end it''s all one thing. It''s always been like that I think, but maybe now it''s a bit more that people don''t go to a club because of listening to the music but more being there and something is going on like the constant beat and then in the end you ask, "How was the DJ? I think maybe the whole development of the music is very interesting because there have never been so many records coming out as there are now, so many different labels and artists.

      id = egyptian-lover-lecture
  author = 
   title = egyptian-lover-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Army; Egyptian; Lover
 summary = In his 2013 Red Bull Music Academy lecture, Egyptian Lover talked about his fascination with Egypt, his predilection for the Roland TR-808, meeting Prince, and much more. I said, "Man, if I got with them, I can get popular enough to make a record." guys wanted to do that, so everybody came to the dance to get their freak on. kind of rare back in the day because nobody did records like that. said, "Maybe I can spread the grooves out." Like, when you go from one record heard it and I''m like, "Oh yeah, this shit sound nice." So I bought it right I would really love to hear that record form 1919 that sounded like that. they put it on record, like, "We''re going to go all out with this." And so I''m like, "Damn, they know this record," so I knew they had a freakness came out, and that''s what inspired me to make records like that,

      id = el-guincho-the-panda-bears-it-all
  author = 
   title = el-guincho-the-panda-bears-it-all
    date = 
keywords = WARREN; emma
 summary = You just said that people in the Canary Islands need to look inside themselves and see the roots of what their music is, and to me, that''s what your record sounds like. What I think is interesting about the album in terms of production is, when I got all the samples, I recorded everything in the same room, and I had six little amps in the same room in a circle, so I just put in this omnidirectional mic and I EQed all the different amps until I was happy with the sound, and then I just placed the drums in the middle of these amps, and I placed six mics behind the amps, so you could get this sensation of exotica stereo kind of thing. It sounds from your description that you like trying different things in terms of the way you record stuff, the way you put it together.

      id = el-p-lecture
  author = 
   title = el-p-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Mao; Mike
 summary = When a 17-year-old Jaime Meline took on the name El-P and formed Company Flow with Mr. Len and Bigg Jus, he could hardly have known that he was going to change the hip-hop game forever. That''s not even mentioning El-P himself, who has released a number of solo albums and provided production for the likes of Alec Empire, Killer Mike and Trent Reznor, before reaching new levels of acclaim with Run The Jewels. You know, we got lots of things to talk about, but I like to start these cool, so you''re doing the record." And I was like, "No." But, you know, there turned out that it worked for us because people liked the record. But when I delve into these records, a lot of times it''s a somewhat growing process of kind of trying to let the voices speak. like I had written… that actually I felt differently, you know?

      id = emmanuel-jagari-chanda-we-intend-to-cause-havoc
  author = 
   title = emmanuel-jagari-chanda-we-intend-to-cause-havoc
    date = 
keywords = Alapatt; Chanda; Egon; Emmanuel; Jagari
 summary = He''s come here to discuss the music that he created in the 1970s with the band that he co-founded and led for quite a long time called WITCH. Imagine being a star – and this man was a star; the WITCH ensemble was a humungous deal there and they played heavy, heavy music – yet he, like everyone else, is trying to find his way in a country that''s been devastated. But yes, I did want to play a Musi O Tunya song because this is a band that existed as a peer to the WITCH but was inspired by them. There''s one song I want to play by Paul Ngozi''s drummer, Chrissy Zebby Tembo, who was able to release his own music in the late ''70s, around the time you released your last album with WITCH, awkwardly titled With Janet (Hit Single).

      id = equiknoxx-and-shanique-marie
  author = 
   title = equiknoxx-and-shanique-marie
    date = 
keywords = Jamaica; Kakaire; Marie; cow
 summary = After years of local work with some of the biggest names in dancehall – Aidonia, Beenie Man, T.O.K – Equiknoxx crash-landed the global dance and electronic scenes with their 2016 album Bird Sound Power, a collection of unreleased riddims that drew a line between Kingston, America and Africa. In this public talk as part of the 2018 CTM Festival in Berlin, and held at the Red Bull Music Studios, Gavsborg, Time Cow and Shanique Marie spoke with refreshing honesty about their career to date, the power of originality, the politics of dancehall and how Jamaica seems to always twist things in unexpected ways. The first question I wanted to ask, actually, was, in preparation for this, reading particularly about the last few years of releases and a lot of the music that has kind of brought you to a bigger audience, this idea of Equiknoxx making dancehall weird again.

      id = erlend-oye-oye-carumba
  author = 
   title = erlend-oye-oye-carumba
    date = 
keywords = king
 summary = Erlend came to prominence with acoustic duo Kings of Convenience, then made a sidechain via Tellé Records and Röyksopp to the universe of electronic dance music. And as I was doing this, I mean I got into this idea, like Mr. Velcro Fastener there must be tons of good electronic music producers around the world that you have never heard about. I mean, then we had many different parts and what usually happens is when you come to the end, you kind of have to cut away at least half of the stuff you have made to make it into a song and not like a collection of ideas. And also, the second part of the question is, in contrast to the Kings Of Convenience stuff, has working with more traditional dance producers maybe made you think of songwriting in a different way?

      id = erykah-badu-frother-of-the-month
  author = 
   title = erykah-badu-frother-of-the-month
    date = 
keywords = ALAPATT; BADU; Dilla; EGON; EOTHEN; ERYKAH
 summary = Hailed the queen of neo-soul on her arrival in 1997, with the multiplatinum Baduizm, she shrugged off the apparent demise of the genre, instead going deeper and weirder with the incredible New Amerykah Part I album in 2007, for which she enlisted such Academy stalwarts as Madlib, Sa-Ra and 9th Wonder. In this lecture at the 2011 Red Bull Music Academy, she muses on success, art, motherhood and control – and does some pretty good impressions of "kindred spirits" Madlib and Dilla. Can you come and open for Mobb Deep and B.I.G.?" It''s like [timid voice] "Yeah." And this happened, I got started. You said earlier on that when you met Dilla, you went out to Detroit not knowing if you were going to connect musically and spiritually, but there was a good chance you''d have a new friend even if it didn''t work out musically.

      id = eumir-deodato-just-a-boy-from-rio
  author = 
   title = eumir-deodato-just-a-boy-from-rio
    date = 
keywords = Brazil; DEODATO; TORSTEN; eumir; schmidt
 summary = "Come on, let''s go tonight to this guys house or that guys house," and you get to choose, like, "Why don''t we go to their house ''cause they usually serve scotch?" OK, so we go to that one and there you found Edu Lobo, you find Jobim, you find all the big names, except Joao Gilberto. I was in Brazil and Airto Moreira, the percussion player, was a good friend of mine as well, and he''s calling me, "I hear your record is on the charts." I said, "Yeah, yeah, sure. I have a copy of it not too long ago and watched the movie and said, "Oh, my God. I didn''t know I could do those things." As times go by, you change. We recorded them in New York under different names, songs like [plays Antonio Carlos Jobim "Insensatez" on the piano] Can you probably use one of these songs, ''cause I guess most people would know them, to show us what different parts answer which parts and how you would actually write an arrangement?

      id = ewan-pearson-illuminati-move-your-body
  author = 
   title = ewan-pearson-illuminati-move-your-body
    date = 
keywords = Ewan; Pearson; Schmidt; Torsten
 summary = It helps to have a manager who is also a lawyer as I did, but also after a while – I am great believer in self-sufficiency, I kind of think that you ought to, if you are a recording artist or a remixer and you are getting contracts all the time, then it takes a while, but after a couple of years you begin to learn how to read them. But nevertheless when you say "maximization" and "bombastic sounds," when you take it back to the second time where house music was around and take a track like Adamski''s "Killer" remix, you got whatever kind of noodely thing in the beginning with some sweeps and then the 909 kicks in, and just the sheer impact of that bass drum is just sending everyone into a frenzy.

      id = fabio-the-root-to-the-shoot
  author = 
   title = fabio-the-root-to-the-shoot
    date = 
keywords = Fabio; Schmidt; TORSTEN; like; music; thing
 summary = I was going out with this lovely, lovely looking Italian girl and she always said, "If we have babies I want it to be called Fabio." "Ok, that''s cool, I love that name." So what happened Colin Dale came into this as well there was a pirate station starting up and Colin Dale was meant to do a show and he pulled out at the last moment because Kiss FM in London was just starting up so he was like, "Listen, can you do this show for me?" I said, "Sure, no problem." So I went down and got a basket full of records and went down to this pirate station, knocked on the door, walked in, and ten minutes beforehand he said, "Listen, you need a name." And I said, "OK, what about Fabio?" And everybody started laughing.

      id = faltydl-lecture
  author = 
   title = faltydl-lecture
    date = 
keywords = New; York
 summary = a lot of UK dance music and old Chicago and Detroit records as well. Well, maybe a good way to kick things off is just to play something from right things, like the amount of time you can put on a record and budget and my music – like yourself – for a long time, and just knows it really well and I really like his music a lot and I think you you." He''s like, "Man, I listen to your records, so I don''t know who first like, "Yeah, we''ll put 45rpm ''cause it''s cool when records say the speed on all music from London and the UK, including jungle and stuff like that, right? Well, I got into electronic music, like old Warp Records stuff, when I was record – not only just the music, but like, the label, the producer itself, the

      id = fatima-al-qadiri-tokyo-2014
  author = 
   title = fatima-al-qadiri-tokyo-2014
    date = 
keywords = Fatima; Martin; Qadiri
 summary = Because a lot of times in the West, the role of the artist is quite exalted and romantic, but it probably wasn''t like that from the way you''re describing it. Interestingly, your obsession with classical music as a child actually managed to inform one your other young loves, which was video games. There''s a lot of original classical music in early video games but I wouldn''t be able to pluck one. These weird things just exist." I think as you get older year by year, you question like, "Wait, why is this Japanese cartoon on Kuwaiti TV?" Just with every year, this became more intriguing, and obviously, me and my younger sister – my younger sister lived in Japan for 10 years. cartoons and listening to music and playing video games, but it''s all a very really high-def, beautiful video and they wanted the music to sound like shit.

      id = fennesz-hunting-high-and-low
  author = 
   title = fennesz-hunting-high-and-low
    date = 
keywords = Emma; Fennesz; Warren
 summary = His work has inspired IDM producers and led to collaborations with heavyweights of the experimental world like Ryuichi Sakamoto, David Sylvian and Mike Patton. In his lecture at the 2008 Red Bull Music Academy, he talks about his love of improvisation and loathing of rehearsals, why he never listens to his old records and why you can''t beat a great melody. It was something completely new, there was no big electronic music festival at that time, I think. Maybe that will come back, but one thing I wanted to ask you: it occurred to me I''m interested in how you listen to music as a consumer. Shall we play a bit or would you like to start talking about your new album? When I use a guitar and a laptop it''s like playing in real time and it''s literally improvised, free.

      id = floating-points-tokyo-2014
  author = 
   title = floating-points-tokyo-2014
    date = 
keywords = Member; Points; music
 summary = Musically, he''s a DJ, producer and co-founder of UK label Eglo Records, blending house, soul, hip-hop and jazz in myriad ways. It means a lot to a lot of people I think that''s why it became a cult record, and then got shelved as soon as it was released. was a lot of records I had but wouldn''t ever think I could play them in a Have you got a record that you''d like to play to sort of illustrate that era? Things like that made me feel it''s all right to experiment with the way I And do you have a space of your own that you can record live music in? And yeah, we started working on music a long time ago. working on music a long time ago, on a record that came out a few years ago, when I sort of stole all of their techniques, like how to record things, just

      id = francesco-tristano
  author = 
   title = francesco-tristano
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Francesco; Tristano
 summary = In 2011 Red Bull Music Academy lecture he goes in depth about his transition and why he sees no difference between the two forms, how he came to work with Carl Craig and Moritz von Oswald and why no recording of any track is ever definitive, just one version among many. We tend to think of old music as being something different from new music, which it is by the standards of time, but by the standards of harmony and rhythm it''s not necessarily so. I was studying classical music but in my free hours I was improvising jazz and just trying to digest the real book, the chord changes and the choruses and stuff. The difference is for me when I try to arrange it to perform it live and still play the piano in an attractive way for me, not just loop stuff. or play my own music, the sound of the piano will always be processed.

      id = francisco-lopez-technocalyps-now
  author = 
   title = francisco-lopez-technocalyps-now
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Francisco; López; Member
 summary = At the 2011 Red Bull Music Academy he talks in depth about why he likes to blindfold the audience, his abhorrence of physical objects, why he sees no gain in titles and how, slowly, the experimental music establishment has come to accept him. we''re definitely influenced by what we know in the way we listen to things. of working with any sound in any imaginable way with the technology of the time – which At the time there was this small constellation of different bands in industrial music that were not exactly connected to this kind of work with sound recordings. But those things are very personal, and that reaction happens naturally, and I like to think of synaesthesia as multimedia inside the body. There''s a lot of people I connect with in terms of music making or sound

      id = francois-k
  author = 
   title = francois-k
    date = 
keywords = GERD; JANSON; Member; New; York
 summary = You know, a lot of very momentous events, but at the same time I think New York has always had a very special kind of energy – a drive. He was just doing his thing and right after I met him, he got into heavy, heavy religion, and he decided to stop playing a lot of songs, because they were all dirty, or didn''t have a good meaning, lyrics, and [he] took a complete left turn with his career. But in general, as long as they played me what they wanted me to work on, and I was able to sort of get a general idea of what it was going to be like, I''d do it. Sorry." And I had many of the people that are coming to Deep Space go, "Look, if this is the kind of shit you''re gonna play, I''m not coming back." And I was like, "You know, in my heart, I feel that music is so strong, so powerful.

      id = frank-el-medico-rodriguez
  author = 
   title = frank-el-medico-rodriguez
    date = 
keywords = Médico; Rodriguez
 summary = So one day, in that routine, at 3 AM Toy comes and tells me, "Hey, we''re done here, let''s go to this other studio to mix this song." And picture that, I''d been up 23 hours straight and I was like, "Let''s go!" And it was Notch, I don''t know if you know him. So I''m working the song, and I look up, and I see Itawe coming in, and I was like, "Itawe?" Well, I didn''t know he used that name back then, I knew him as Christian, I was like, "Christian!" and he was like, "Frank!" "Yeah!" "What are you doing here?" "What are you doing here?" "No, I''m a musician." "Man, I''m an engineer!" "Really?" "Yeah, really!" So we reconnected after 10 years. Hey, talking about that, about mixing rhythms, I don''t know, since the beginning, like you said, since the first rap songs in the US, if they were ABC or whatever, they sampled funk or soul or whatever they had at hand, right?

      id = frankie-knuckles-lecture
  author = 
   title = frankie-knuckles-lecture
    date = 
keywords = CHAIRMAN; FRANKIE; JEFF; KNUCKLES
 summary = He cut his DJ teeth with Larry Levan before heading off to Chicago, where he helped shape and design The Warehouse, the club that birthed and named house music before it conquered the world in the late ''80s. In this lecture at the 2011 Red Bull Music Academy, this modern American legend, who tragically passed away in 2014, takes us through his 40-year career, from New York to Chicago and back again, via the rest of the world. helping you shape your sound and perfecting it, and then you''ve got background singers that are hanging on every note you got for them; and you''ve got someone as big as Luther Vandross or Michael Jackson sitting there saying, "Whatever you want, however you want it, I''ll stay here as long as you need me." That''s the reward right there, every time you work with somebody like

      id = front-242-boot-camp-click
  author = 
   title = front-242-boot-camp-click
    date = 
keywords = Bressanutti; Codenys; Schmidt; music; people
 summary = Because of the way we had to handle music with the type of machines we had, it was very rigorous and we needed a lot of discipline, so there was no time for the rock & roll bullshit stereotypes, like tattoos, piercings and girls. But nevertheless, at the time, and I say this because there is a lot of Spanish people in the room – those instruments have the ability to maybe bring your expression that is linked to your roots or your feelings or your culture, more than any other musical instrument, and I believe there is no rules. To make a short introduction, you''re going to hear that most of the beats and the way we do music is quite metronomic because it is linked with the instruments of the time and we always wanted to work with limits. Now, today it is ordinary, but I think if you create music, the things you don''t want people to know are sometimes an advantage.

      id = gabriel-roth-the-mathematics-of-soul
  author = 
   title = gabriel-roth-the-mathematics-of-soul
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Mao; Roth; Sharon; record
 summary = I didn''t really care what anybody thought, and for me, that turned out to be a huge advantage, because I think one of the reasons I''ve been successful is that I''ve done stuff my way and it has been so far outside of what''s going on, as opposed to working in a studio and learning, "This is the way you''re supposed to mic a snare drum; this is the way you supposed to do this; this is the way you do art work and this is the way you sell records." The thing was that he was just crazy enough to try stuff like that, and because of that, I think, he had a big influence on my approach to how you make records, which is "Just do whatever you want to do, and if it sounds good, it''s good, and if it doesn''t, it doesn''t." 

      id = gareth-jones-listen-without-prejudice
  author = 
   title = gareth-jones-listen-without-prejudice
    date = 
keywords = Gareth; John; Jones; Schmidt; Torsten; record
 summary = Then, as the co-producer of many of Depeche Mode''s greatest works, he helped to create experimental music with global chart appeal. a lot of the really interesting music I got to hear came through the radio. Like the other thing – I''ve got lots of terrible, terrible examples thought, "Let''s go and work in John Foxx''s studio," because they didn''t like to the studio with these sounds, and I realized I hadn''t got the tape recorder chosen the synth sounds, possibly even recorded them, then have a nice big room like A lot of the time, it''s great to just do the vocals, like everyone The interesting thing is that you''re talking about a time when that particular band you were recording showed millions of people around the world, that probably aren''t old Obviously, from the band, I guess, and I like working with people. No, I like lots of different records.

      id = gary-bartz-bonn-better-know
  author = 
   title = gary-bartz-bonn-better-know
    date = 
keywords = Bartz; Gary; Keith; Warren
 summary = – the term for "pussy" and "f---" was "jazz." They would say, "I am going down to the jazz house to get me some jazz," and that is where the music was, so they said, "What kind of music were they playing?" "Jazz music." Certainly, it is a negative word and most of the musicians I have been fortunate to be around, such as Duke Ellington, Miles Davis, Max Roach, Mingus, Art Blakey, I could go on, they hate that word. Talking of sound, I feel like we missed our opportunity to listen to some music because there are so many things to talk to you about and we want to hear what you''re saying. Which is, like I said, about Miles – he couldn''t play those songs because they were just put together from lots of different things.

      id = gary-bartz-san-francisco
  author = 
   title = gary-bartz-san-francisco
    date = 
keywords = Bartz; CHAIRMAN; JEFF; MAO
 summary = This session took place during the Red Bull Music Academy''s "New York City To the SF Bay" lecture series in San Francisco, with Bartz discussing everything from playing with music''s greats to why he doesn''t like the J-word. He''s worked with some of the giants of music: Miles Davis, Charles Mingus, Max Roach and many may others. last night, usually I like to start these things out with a little bit of totally an ear musician and I think that''s the proper way to learn music is by actually talk a little bit about the loft music scene in New York in the ''60s at that time because I think a lot of DJs in this room, the loft in New York It wasn''t just the band because in those days we would play at places like The music can work in different ways so I started trying to think of other ways

      id = gaspar-noe
  author = 
   title = gaspar-noe
    date = 
keywords = Brian; Gaspar; Noé; Reitzell
 summary = This one movie that I almost put on the list of excerpts that I wanted to put, but I already put 15 excerpts instead of the ten that they allowed me, so I could not put 20 or 30, but I was thinking of this silent movie called The Passion of Joan of Arc, that I have seen lately and the silent movies at the time were played with organs or with the piano or whatever and I saw there''s a film festival in New York where they show all these old silent movies and there was guy with an organ playing on stage and it was so moving because you feel like you''re in the temple and the sound is not digital, the sound doesn''t come from the loud speakers, it was on stage, and you really made the movie even bigger than ever.

      id = gavin-rayna-russom
  author = 
   title = gavin-rayna-russom
    date = 
keywords = Gonsher; Rayna; Russom; like; thing
 summary = As far as the story of this music, yeah, this record kind of has an interesting story in that Black Meteoric Star is a project that I started in 2006 and have done in various different configurations, like putting out records, playing live, performances, collaborations. I think this record in particular, and one of the reasons I wanted to play it all the way through, is whether under Black Meteoric Star or not, it represents a lot of what I associate with your solo productions and electronic music, of things that are very hypnotic and propulsive, but also have very unique timbral worlds. People are doing experimental music in clubs, and it''s kind of punk, and people are dancing." That was super exciting to me, and then I went back a little bit like, "How is this all going to work?" I mean, I was also playing in bands at Bard.

      id = george-clinton
  author = 
   title = george-clinton
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Clinton; George; Mao
 summary = But nobody said "We gon'' play the funk." I think that''s why I intentionally wanted to say that because I saw how rock & roll had been changed so thoroughly from Chuck Berry, Little Richard and Muddy Waters to where black people didn''t even know it was theirs. I mean, he really took it back, and we felt like we got another version of that same thing. Because anybody who knew all the funk stuff, once you hear the straighter stuff, the soul stuff, the R&B stuff that you start out with, it''s like, oh my god, it''s the same thing but they freaked it later. It can be a range." A couple of days later he come into the studio, he said, "Just do it the way that you would regularly do it." [sings beat] I sung it just like I singed it ordinarily, and didn''t have to change, the "round and round" worked.

      id = georgia-anne-muldrow-and-dudley-perkins-the-universe-according
  author = 
   title = georgia-anne-muldrow-and-dudley-perkins-the-universe-according
    date = 
keywords = Anne; Chairman; Mao; Muldrow; Perkins
 summary = I never really paid attention to her music, except once in the car I said, "Let me meet her first." So, I called her to come to the show and stuff like that. I think having a chance to let it open out over the mountain, you get a chance to hear what the music truly sounds like, you know? I don''t see money out of this stuff, music like that, you know? It''s like, I want people to be more kind to themselves in this production stuff, man, because I know I can beat myself real bad when it comes to music and that''s what causes writer''s block. I know that a lot people got family over there, who''s fighting in the war and stuff like that. So, really, you guys, all here right now, while you doing your thing and learning everything like that, when you get to the peak of your music, put that little message in here to stop that war.

      id = gerald-jazzman-short-looking-for-the-perfect-beat
  author = 
   title = gerald-jazzman-short-looking-for-the-perfect-beat
    date = 
keywords = Jazzman; Member; short
 summary = I DJed it in Munich and I remember it had a really good response, even though it''s a bit of a quirky one as you''ll hear, and I thought, "If I''m the only person who''s got this record and a lot of people really like it, then it makes sense to reissue it in such a way that everyone else who likes it will be able to hear it instead of just me in my bedroom." So that''s why we put it out on single. But it''s worth it in the end because when you actually do come across that guy and you go and meet him and you do the interview, it''s really good to meet someone who appreciates the fact that you spent all that time and effort to find them and they made a record, say, 30 years ago that they never ever thought would see the light of day again and you''re telling them that they''re going to get paid for it.

      id = gilb-r-2015
  author = 
   title = gilb-r-2015
    date = 
keywords = Emma; Gilb''R; Warren
 summary = I called the label like that because my vision of music was as one box and I didn''t want it to be to release one kind of stuff. On the label, basically it''s a group of people who are all really into music, but all of us, we come from a different genre, different kind of stuff, but we all fit together rightly. We have some very big parties and also some kind of collective, made me think like back in the day in the rave scene, some kids from 20-year-old take a venue somewhere, a bit illegal and have two thousand people there. Yes. The process really changed to me since I started to do music into sitting in front of the computer and look at cubes and repeat spots and stuff like that into now more jamming the track, record it.

      id = giorgio-moroder
  author = 
   title = giorgio-moroder
    date = 
keywords = Giorgio; Moroder; Schmidt
 summary = Who has one beautiful song where he raps and he tells about this girl with the big tits and he says, "And they look like the Dolomites," which are the mountains where I come from. I have one guy, an Italian guy, who loved Donna Summer and who loves me, and every two weeks, he comes, "Giorgio, I found a new song of you." And then he tells me what it is, I say, "Oh, yeah? I know so many people that just do so much crazy, creative stuff – great, I''m not cursing here – and they will just give you these b-tapes, for example, and it''s like 300 works of genius on there. In fact, I was talking to a guy who works with Jay-Z, and I said, "Do you know, I may re-write the music?" In fact, Jay-Z and a lot of rappers wanted to re-write the songs for the movie, then Brian De Palma didn''t

      id = goldie-ramblas-in-the-jungle
  author = 
   title = goldie-ramblas-in-the-jungle
    date = 
keywords = Goldie; Schmidt; music; thing
 summary = I understood graffiti as far as the letter form was concerned, but the social message was really important to me – these ghettos in New York and the pressure of people going there and the whole thing with reflecting that in the UK of what that was about. I think drum & bass took the fundamental things, like rave sound and breakbeat, and we married that and it was the bastard child, as far as I''m concerned. It kind of reminds me, without taking anything away from them with what they''ve done with that version, I guess around about the time you did your second album Saturnz Return there was this longing in a lot of drum & bass, like, "OK, we''ve done the AKAIs, we''ve done the EMUs, and now we want to do real music," and everyone and their mum got a real bass player and Rhodes galore and yadda, yada, yadda.

      id = granular-convolver-takahashi-rest-hohnerlein
  author = 
   title = granular-convolver-takahashi-rest-hohnerlein
    date = 
keywords = Hohnerlein; Rest; Takahashi
 summary = The next idea was, "Why don''t we use samples and do granular synthesis with it?" But then it would kind of sound like granular synthesis, so I was kind of stuck there when Max mentioned, for a complete different project, that we should use convolution. People usually associate convolution to reverb processing, but actually it''s just a way of combining two sounds together and matching the spectrum and picking out the bits that are common to both sounds. So I was thinking, maybe if we can have sampling, and we can have granular synthesis, where we can really zoom in the sample and pick out the bits that sound interesting, and then what if we can convolve that with another sound that''s coming in in real time? [Tatsuya speaks into mic which is connected to the Granular Convolver] I think since you have the controls, maybe talk a bit about what''s going on.

      id = greg-phillinganes-lecture
  author = 
   title = greg-phillinganes-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Mao; Phillinganes; Stevie
 summary = I''d like to actually start, just because everybody''s come in from food, or whatever conversation they''ve been having, or session that they just came out of, with a little bit of music just to reset our ears. I would just say the experience of playing with different kinds of musicians because while listening to recordings of your inspirations is very important, nothing will expand your musicianship more than just getting in a room with guys and girls and just going at it. My mom''s getting ready to go to work and she''s like, "What is the matter with you?" I said, "Stevie Wonder wants to see me in New York!" She says, "OK, well just bring clean underwear" because you know that''s the – that''s what moms do.

      id = greg-wilson-2014
  author = 
   title = greg-wilson-2014
    date = 
keywords = Burns; London; Wilson; like
 summary = I was spending a lot of money, and it was important that I had these but it also made me think well, to kind of cover my back I used to shop in London as well and make sure I go to London every few weeks just to check off of that the things there and so you know it made me like look at things in a bit of a different way, but again the guy, later we clashed further along the line with the electro thing because he was completely anti-electro, and even put [a sign] in the shop window — although they were selling this music and there was massive demand for it — "electro shit chart," it was like just grinding it down as though it was worthless and nothing.

      id = greg-wilson-credit-to-the-edit
  author = 
   title = greg-wilson-credit-to-the-edit
    date = 
keywords = GERD; GREG; JANSON; WILSON; like
 summary = Born and raised across the River Mersey from Liverpool, Greg Wilson is one of the original DJs who introduced British club audiences to the revolutionary dance music sounds coming out of New York City: disco, electro-funk and hip-hop. Eventually, I took over a club called The Golden Guinea in New Brighton, and it was a very commercially-based club, but bit by bit, I worked with the people that were there and started playing some imports myself and the whole disco thing was evolving at the same time. From that level, when I went to the Golden Guinea club, I had a period of time where I could slowly, bit by bit, kind of impose my personality into the night, and eventually get into a situation where the nights I was doing there were regarded throughout the Merseyside area as some of the best nights to hear black music, which was the great thing for me.

      id = gudrun-gut
  author = 
   title = gudrun-gut
    date = 
keywords = Berlin; Bächer; Gudrun; Gut
 summary = A musician, performance artist, DJ, radio host, club organizer, label owner and more, Gudrun Gut is also a feminist icon who has been at the forefront of forward-thinking music in Berlin for decades. While Gut left shortly after Einstürzende Neubauten''s initial gigs, she went on to play in several more influential bands, including Mania D, a new wave group who imbued their music with elements of free jazz, all-female post-punk band Malaria! I know that you''re doing it with this idea of not actually learning an instrument and just doing stuff, but at the same time you had a sound engineer on stage which I think in electronic music is sort of the equivalent of a classically trained musician in a band with instrumentalists.

      id = gyedu-blay-ambolley-living-the-highlife
  author = 
   title = gyedu-blay-ambolley-living-the-highlife
    date = 
keywords = Africa; Ambolley; Blay; Ghana
 summary = During his lecture at the 2011 Red Bull Music Academy, he looks back on the origins of highlife, its relationship with colonialism and how a generation of American musicians, led by James Brown, fuelled Ghana''s belief in its own heritage. Congotronics thing''s been massive and I''m sure a few of you in this room know a little about a style of music that''s been all over West Africa called highlife. Just before we move ahead in time, you wanted to play another track you''ve brought, which is a really good example of this early form of highlife, which is strictly more rhythm and guitar. If you come to the Western style of music, I think, like what my brother Nick is saying, a disservice has been done to the people from the Western world because they''ve painted Africa like it''s a safari, jungle, no streets, no cars.

      id = hanin-elias-lecture
  author = 
   title = hanin-elias-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Bächer; Elias; Hanin; Hanna
 summary = My mom, she''s from Western Germany and that was a very small village that I grew up in, and I was the only one with a foreign name, for example, so people started making fun of my name and pronouncing it in a very ugly way. Don''t!" In the early time, I was also interested in music, especially in the ''80s, when I was ten, 11 years old, I already had an Ideal tape, and I really liked the new wave, Gothic kind of music, which was... Then I started the Riot, and ran away and lived with punks in squats, and made music, because my parents didn''t want to send me money and support my lifestyle. Yeah, I met a friend of him at a dance marathon of Radio4, so I was like dancing to early techno stuff and tried to win the dance marathon, because you could win some money, and I always needed some money back in the day.

      id = hank-shocklee-art-brut
  author = 
   title = hank-shocklee-art-brut
    date = 
keywords = Chuck; SHOCKLEE; TORSTEN; record; schmidt
 summary = That''s a probably a good thing because obviously you recorded a lot of things before automation and all these things were really at what they are now, and to have like all these stacked sounds, you must have had an army of people working the desk. So that when he sits in the track, he is in that world by himself, and the music is doing some chaotic thing all around [waves his arms around] and thus creating an aggression that I want to get across because I think that hip-hop and rock & roll to me is pretty much all the same. I mean, that right there was the blessing because, as you know now, if you get signed to a record company, the last thing in the world you are going to have is full creative control.

      id = harold-faltermeyer-tokyo-2014
  author = 
   title = harold-faltermeyer-tokyo-2014
    date = 
keywords = Faltermeyer; Germany; Giorgio; Harold; TORSTEN; like; schmidt
 summary = This perfectly-pitched German keyboardist and composer dominated the ''80s by composing two of the most enduring pieces of movie-inspired synth madness: "Axel F" (the theme to Beverly Hills Cop) and the "Top Gun Anthem." When he wasn''t soundtracking your favorite cop car and fighter jet chases, Mr. Faltermeyer was Giorgio Moroder''s right-hand man and arranged and produced for the likes of Donna Summer, Cheap Trick, and the Pet Shop Boys. or for a pop band at that time a very unique thing to do a song which is like Yeah, I guess pop music at that time was probably very parent-friendly, right? like I said, first of all as a little guy who got gin tonics for band leaders unique thing and it was, of course, the genius of a guy like Alan Parker who You were busy doing something else and I''d like to play the actual music video

      id = harry-belafonte
  author = 
   title = harry-belafonte
    date = 
keywords = America; Belafonte; Dr.; King; people
 summary = I think that my life has been more than rewarded with the fact that… to be an activist was rewarded with the fact that a lot of people sought my services… Dr. King being one of the principal players, and people like Paul Robeson himself and others… Malcolm X… people I worked with and served. Thinking about your work in the civil rights movement, you coordinated with musicians to come and sing to the people who were marching, and I was curious about what that research process looked like. I am rewarded by the fact that for a long time, when it looked like we were being indifferent, that now these young people are emerging and that a lot of artists, in particular, are making it necessary for their journey to reveal a commitment to black liberation and to the liberation of people caught in poverty.

      id = haruomi-hosono
  author = 
   title = haruomi-hosono
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Haruomi; Hosono; japanese
 summary = Haruomi Hosono is best known internationally as a key member of the rock band Happy End and the pioneering electronic music band Yellow Magic Orchestra, with Yukihiro Takahashi and Ryuichi Sakamoto – but the wealth of this works can be overwhelming. In 2014 Red Bull Music Academy lecture, he reflected on his fascinating solo work of the ''70s and ''80s, shed light on his trip to India, his love for Van Dyke Parks, his ideas on Japanese and American culture, and plenty more. I want to briefly touch on the first, or I guess the second major group that you were in, which is Happy End. I''d like to play a little bit of a track that some people may know also as a soundtrack to a movie that came out a couple of years ago.

      id = henrik-schwarz-and-bugge-wesseltoft-the-drama-knob
  author = 
   title = henrik-schwarz-and-bugge-wesseltoft-the-drama-knob
    date = 
keywords = Janson; Schwarz; Wesseltoft
 summary = On the couch with him for this 2010 Red Bull Music Academy lecture is recent collaborator Bugge Wesseltoft, a Norwegian mastermind whose became known for his New Conception Of Jazz in the early ''90s particularly after working in several jazz outfits and recording with Jan Garbarek for ECM. Maybe, to give people some idea of your music, shall we play something quick? development and a lot of people in the electronic music scene use this for create things all the time, just to be possible to me to play around with some stuff and just record it. I love other people''s music and I like it when the DJ is playing. It sounds like you guys play in a lot of different environments, from clubs to

      id = herb-powers
  author = 
   title = herb-powers
    date = 
keywords = Janson; Jr.; Member; Powers
 summary = I thought they sounded okay, but I would always play with the mixer, and I was like, "I gotta get a little more bass in this, and I wanna get a little bit more of this in there, I wanna get a little more of that." And so, as I was listening to them I said, "You know, I want to find out how this is done." So I went to Sigma Sound, that was a studio that was on 54th Street, I think it was, the Ed Sullivan building, and then I went upstairs and there was Frankford/Wayne, and I realised that''s where they make the actual records, you make the actual acetates. I don''t even think the Tandy computer had came out yet, and IBMs [early personal computers] were still like, that was when Bill Gates said, "No one would ever need over a gig[abyte]." [laughs] You know?

      id = hip-tanaka
  author = 
   title = hip-tanaka
    date = 
keywords = Dwyer; Game; Nintendo; Tanaka
 summary = As a sound designer, musician and composer, Tanaka was the brains behind the sound of well-loved, globally successful video games like Super Mario Land, Tetris, Icarus, Mother and Dr. Mario, as well as designing and coding the Game Boy audio software that became the soundtrack to countless childhoods. He began working at a company, which I''m sure a few of you know, called Nintendo in 1980, and went on to compose some of the most memorable melodies of early 8-bit games. So when you say you were working on the hardware side of things, I think a lot of people right now know there''s a big scene around the world for chip music, and there''s so many artists that make music primarily on a Game Boy. Now, the sound chip in the Game Boy – that was something you came up with.

      id = holly-herndon-tokyo-2014
  author = 
   title = holly-herndon-tokyo-2014
    date = 
keywords = Emma; Herndon; Holly; Member; Warren; like
 summary = like to think that music could have a role in helping direct conversations, I think now sounds like always being connected to other people online. think those are all things that influenced the way that today sounds. On a slightly different way, like where I come from in London, this sounds out a way to let pedestrians know that cars are coming and so a lot of sound I think urban sound planning and things like that are really not in this room, everybody knows that laptop music is like totally normal. I think when people talk about technology, like human versus machine, processing him in real-time and it was about kind of like expanding his voice, Yeah, I think this was for just kind of like for a rich guy. that people see the world and politics and things like that. Yeah, but also in a way I don''t like, with some students, I''ve done things

      id = howard-bilerman-lecture
  author = 
   title = howard-bilerman-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Bilerman; Burns; Leonard; like; record
 summary = But you need to play with the same sort of intensity and the desire to communicate something when you''re in a studio as you would if you were onstage playing for people and that, that lesson was learned from years of just showing up at clubs and watching bands play and getting to record them. My parents were really generous with me, both with lending me some cash to buy some recording equipment, and then being like, "Hey, can I set up a recording studio in your basement?" They were like, "Okay, at least he wants to do something." You know, we''d record in the basement and then realize, "Fuck, the drums sound great in the garage with all the concrete, so let''s put the drums in the garage and we''ll put the rest of the band in the basement." Then my dad was like, "We need to park the...

      id = hudson-mohawke-lecture
  author = 
   title = hudson-mohawke-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Hudson; Mohawke; like
 summary = As a member of the Scottish dance and hip-hop collective LuckyMe, Birchard''s ascent to global fame has seen him go from playing Glasgow house parties to releasing two solo albums for Warp, producing with Lunice as the gargantuan duo TNGHT, signing to Kanye West''s G.O.O.D. Music and producing hits for West, Pusha T and Drake. That is a Kanye West song called "Blood On The Leaves," which is one of the first productions I did with him, and basically, we were going to have a discussion today about how we went from the very early days of playing to 50 people to working on this type of material. Yeah, of course, but to think, it''s interesting, it''s more common now for people to use a computer to make music in any way, but at that time, making the kind of music that you were into with Fruity Loops, people were a bit snobby about that…

      id = hugh-masekela-the-message
  author = 
   title = hugh-masekela-the-message
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Huddleston; Masekela
 summary = So, people followed music like sort of en masse and communally and they were obsessed with the songs and the dances that came with them. It was a trumpet player called Elijah Nkwanyna, who I still try to play like. My parents knew the band owner, my uncle was a friend with his son, so he said, "Listen, this kid just started to play." I think I just picked up the trumpet for two years. By the time I was in my second year of school, I had record offers because I played on Miriam''s second album a muted trumpet on three of the songs. And they were the most played songs on that album and then word got around and I got a record contract and, of course, the rest became history as time went on.

      id = hype-williams
  author = 
   title = hype-williams
    date = 
keywords = Hype; Mao; Williams; like
 summary = In this conversation as part of Red Bull Music Festival New York 2018, hosted at the AMC Empire 25 cinema, the Queens native looked back on the early days of his career, working with Bad Boy Records, Missy Elliott and Beyoncé and what it took to leave his mark on the culture. I think it was through the original stuff, like the original stuff that came out of New York was Funky 4 + 1, and that probably sounds real crazy to you guys but that was the name of the group. So I thought, ''OK, I''ll do this to get my hands on the stuff that I want to learn.'' And I ran around and talked to all the camera people and all the crew people who worked in videos, and annoyed everybody. Was there a particular inspiration in terms of just filmmakers, films, things that you saw that were of the quality that you felt you could bring to hip-hop music videos at that time?

      id = i-f-body-language
  author = 
   title = i-f-body-language
    date = 
keywords = Gerd; Janson
 summary = In his lecture at the 2008 Red Bull Music Academy, van der Sluijs talked about his do-it-yourself ethos, giving up the record business for the Internet and the Netherlands'' burgeoning west coast electro scene. He''s living in the Hague in the Netherlands, and over the years he''s started record labels, Internet radio stations, infamous mixtapes and has had even the odd minor hit. Then Guy came in with the Bunker stuff and opened a new world for me with the underground parties in squats and things. I wouldn''t even play you my first record, because I think it''s awful – there''s nothing in it, but you''re just so enthusiastic… I understand the feeling, "Wow, I did this, I pushed the buttons and this is coming out of it." It takes a while to understand in-depth how synthesizers work, how you record a track and the problems you encounter if you want to lay down a good mix.

      id = ian-dewhirst-mastercuts-blaster
  author = 
   title = ian-dewhirst-mastercuts-blaster
    date = 
keywords = CHAIRMAN; DEWHIRST; IAN; JEFF; MAO
 summary = Ian Dewhirst is best known as a compiler but he got his start in music DJing in the Northern Soul scene, where obscurity is everything. As a ten year-old kid in the north of England hearing that stuff for the first time, that kind of got me into the whole soul and R&B thing. Gradually, as I got older, I started hearing more obscure things out of guys who were two or three years older than me that were playing one-offs which later on became known as Northern soul. I really don''t like the record anymore, but I guess you should hear a bit of it because it connects with the Northern soul thing. This was very much a key record that got a lot of the Northern soul people to listen differently.

      id = ice-t
  author = 
   title = ice-t
    date = 
keywords = Ice; Jamm; Mao; Member; like; shit
 summary = We said, "Look, we''re not going to be able to have these parties if y''all act up." That''s one thing we know about clubbing is that once somebody gets shot, or something happens the girls stop coming. It explains the transition of me trying to rap like rappers, and then having my friends tell me… The words, "Ten years ago I used to listen to rap is flow, talk about the way they rocked the mic at the disco, I liked how that shit was going down, I dreamt about ripping the mic with my own sound, so I tried writing rhymes something like them, my boy said, "That ain''t you, Ice, that just sound like him," so I sat back, thought up a new track, I didn''t fantasize, I kicked the pure facts, motherf-----s got scared because they was unprepared, who would tell it how it really was?

      id = ig-culture-broken-culture
  author = 
   title = ig-culture-broken-culture
    date = 
keywords = Culture
 summary = Following those early forays IG established himself as one of London''s most reliable producers, a man with an ear for classic sounds that is equally comfortable twisting up new styles, producing for the likes of Monday Michiru and Roots Manuva. In the early 2000s, he became part of London''s short-lived but influential broken beat scene, producing and releasing tunes under the New Sector Movements project alongside fellow local luminaries like Bugz In The Attic. In his lecture at the 2007 Red Bull Music Academy, the man born Ian Grant discusses his roots in hip-hop, the London warehouse scene, early mistakes and the influence of fusion on his style. If we''re thinking about starting record labels or wanting to put out our own music tomorrow, you know, is there any one thing that you''d say?

      id = iggy-pop-lecture
  author = 
   title = iggy-pop-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Audience; Carl; Iggy; Member; Pop; Wilson
 summary = It went along with a stream of consciousness, but at that point we began to articulate songs and we got the Marshall stacks, you know, things like that. It was thick the way it later gets and it was the same riff and I said, "Oi, oi, oi Ron if you start out play it like John Lee Hooker." John Lee Hooker for anybody who knows has had a seminal blues boogie player who made great recordings alone by using a lot of space, more like Hubert Sumlin in Howlin'' Wolf. Well, I would suppose that if you don''t have any hits, and the music you''re playing probably has very little commonality with the language that a wider group can understand, if you want to continue your employment next month, then maybe you need a guy in the band who''s going to go out there and get noticed, so sure.

      id = isao-tomita
  author = 
   title = isao-tomita
    date = 
keywords = Hara; Isao; Moog; Tomita
 summary = In the ''60s, he pioneered the use of the Moog synthesizer to not just create note-for-note facsimiles of "real" music, but to refigure electronic compositions as soundscapes, creating daring new sounds that would become highly influential for science fiction cinema soundtracks, modern synth-pop, and much more. In his 2014 Red Bull Music Academy Tokyo lecture, Tomita discussed discovering Moog synths, his influence on the sound of Apocalypse Now, Vocaloid Hatsune Miku, and more. But for those of us who grew up in Japan, for us Japanese, Isao Tomita is someone who is of course a composer of electronic music, but what his name reminds us of first are his scores for TV dramas, anime, and other such things, which many of us grew up hearing without realizing that they were all composed by Mr. Tomita – myself included. So I wanted to see if it were possible to listen to music like the way we listen to the sounds that surround us in our daily lives.

      id = ivan-smagghe
  author = 
   title = ivan-smagghe
    date = 
keywords = Smagghe; Warren
 summary = You can try not to make what I would call – we might want to come back on that – "functional dance music," which I''ve got a lot of respect for. I''m going to maybe have to skip through to get to the interesting bit because electronic music sometimes has got really boring intros… Really, I imagine what you''re saying is that you can have this conversation about whether something is actually good or whether you like it, but the thing always has to be that you find it interesting. If people are running labels and they''re thinking about reissuing records, what are the kind of things that should make you want to reissue something? Sometimes you can make a record I don''t even know if it''s great and it''s going to take you 10 years.

      id = j-da-flex-138-bpm-hurdles
  author = 
   title = j-da-flex-138-bpm-hurdles
    date = 
keywords = FLEX
 summary = Pretty soon his healthy appetite for fresh tunes earned him heavyweight status in the London pirates, allowing him to break onto 1Xtra with his show Underground Knowledge shortly after setting up the influential label Ghost. I got involved in the pirate thing when I moved down to London in ''97 just after I got my job in the record shop. I''m just curious to know how the music that you are playing is now, which is obviously what you started out listening to, how it mutated into the sound that is now called garage. With this track, a guy called DJ Zinc he started producing what he didn''t like to call garage. Everyone has been playing that, and you are just like, "I want that track." How long did it take for people to get that one?

      id = jacques-greene-lecture
  author = 
   title = jacques-greene-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Greene; Jacques; Martin; Member; like; music
 summary = After throwing this Turbo Crunk party, I started getting way more into just straightforward dance music, and I got really obsessed with some early vocal driven house music, where, what I was talking about before of this kind of idea of like blues and dance music... I actually brought this interesting one, a song I released recently called "You Can''t Deny." Started as sitting around my apartment when I was living in New York with my roommate and a friend of mine, Joseph, and we were talking about how Twitter timelines are mostly trash and we were just watching people trying to sell us stuff. As I was working on this live show, I was playing a show in Beirut for more traditional, underground dance music guys, and the next day we''re having lunch and I''m telling them how excited I am that there''s going to be this interactive play between the music that I''m performing in the lights, and it''s all going to happen at the same time, and for me, it''s this very exciting way to communicate my music, and he goes like, "Aw, man you think you need lights?"

      id = jah-shaka-tokyo-2014
  author = 
   title = jah-shaka-tokyo-2014
    date = 
keywords = Jah; Jamaica; Shaka
 summary = Jah Shaka''s legendary dubs, spiritual message and chest-rattling soundsystem have come to symbolize a deeper meaning in sound. Coming from Jamaica to London in the late ''50s, Jah Shaka''s young life was embedded within the black British immigrant experience: families building their own soundsystems and throwing house parties as a way to escape the racism and poverty that met so many of them on arrival. Having toured the world to spread his message of love, tolerance and spirituality for over 40 years, the Shaka sound remains a truly special one. This is Jah Shaka, spiritual soundsystem, playing spiritual music from in the Windrush time, the black people going to London, on the doors of the houses young and we are playing to people 50, 60 years old. kind of record to play for older people, not young. We want more." We play for the people. people like this have played a big part.

      id = jam-city
  author = 
   title = jam-city
    date = 
keywords = City; Jam; Martin; like
 summary = Yeah, I mean the thing I suppose I come back to time and time again is the most simple thing which is just listening to music really, really loud with other people, and obviously a nightclub is the place to do that. And absolutely yeah, that year of free education with some really dedicated and amazing people who I was lucky enough to have as my tutors completely gave me a bunch of tools, I suppose, to think about things when I started to make music. And actually, I mean I keep hearing really great new artists and songwriters that are probably using a similar setup for cost reasons and everything, and I feel almost like there''s a new wave of really interesting guitar-centered electronic music maybe I can''t think of any examples off the top of my head.

      id = jam-lewis-lecture
  author = 
   title = jam-lewis-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Jam; Janet; Lewis; Mao; Prince; Terry
 summary = In the lunch room we had a piano, a little upright piano, and I walked up through and I see Jimmy Jam with a crowd of girls standing around him serenading the girls and I said, "Man this dude is kind of cool." At that time I didn''t know he was a drummer so at the end of the project for the summer we had a dance and so I asked the counselor, "Can we put a band together and play some songs?" He said, "Yes." I had a little band together, David Eiland who was a saxophonist and Jellybean Johnson who was a drummer, he was the drummer in The Time. Wow," he said, "Well, I don''t think you have anything to worry about because this record you guys got here is a smash." And we were like, "Really?" And he had mixed enough to know, and he was right and it was a smash.

      id = james-holden-care-in-the-border-community
  author = 
   title = james-holden-care-in-the-border-community
    date = 
keywords = Gerd; Holden; James; Janson
 summary = In his lecture at the 2010 Red Bull Music Academy in London, Holden talks about wiring things up the wrong way, telling A&R men where to go and why you can mix anything, as long as it''s in the right key. As a label, it''s a bit like being a DJ, you''re trying to make people trust you, to buy your next unknown artist, to sort of believe in your identity and where you''re going. With key-mixing you can hear the musical links between things, and if you''re holding the arpeggio that''s the end of one track, and then playing an ambient track over the top of it and then something else in the same key, it all just feels like you can change mood very drastically, go from banging to not banging. You can also take from it, "Maybe if I work harder these people won''t realize they don''t like this sort of music, they will get this thing.

      id = james-murphy
  author = 
   title = james-murphy
    date = 
keywords = Burns; James; Murphy; Todd; like
 summary = James Murphy almost singlehandedly brought back the cultural exchange between indie and dance music with his band LCD Soundsystem, the attached DFA label, and cult singles like "Losing My Edge" and the Rapture''s "House Of Jealous Lovers." As the leading man and lyricist of LCD Soundsystem, he has celebrated two Grammy nominations and received critical acclaim for the second LCD album, Sound Of Silver. [stops music] There is no graceful way to stop things like that, I think. rites of passage albums, that, I guess, sounded like being a suburban kid who''d get himself punched in the face just by being annoying and feel outside. You know, I remember the first time when I was a kid, when Public Enemy came out, it was so incredibily agressive, didn''t sound like anything else and was really scary.

      id = james-pants-dollar-bin-kingpin
  author = 
   title = james-pants-dollar-bin-kingpin
    date = 
keywords = Bortot; Davide; James; Pants
 summary = I guess we will talk about the production of your new album later on, but there may be one more thing when it comes to buying records or looking for music… I think when you are, you really want to listen to music everybody else is listening to, and you just want to be part of something, pretty much the music that everybody else likes. It is by a guy called the Prophet and is called A Badd Record, like B-A-D-D – that is the kind of music I like where the song is maybe not very professional but is really interesting to listen to. I think with the Welcome record there is definitely some kind of – I won''t say club music because we tried to play it at the club the other night and it scared some people – but it has kind of a backbone of club music, and so a lot of DJs have found the certain songs they like.

      id = jan-delay
  author = 
   title = jan-delay
    date = 
keywords = Bortot; Davide; Delay; Hamburg; Jan
 summary = Best known to a certain generation as one of the artists who helped amplify Germany''s rap boom, he has since proved adept at reinvention while retaining the DIY flair of his early years surrounded by punk and hip-hop dreamers. Where did the love for hip-hop and its culture came from that made you want to be involved and get something started? We were like, "Yes, hello." Trying to make our voices sound deeper and older while interviewing hip-hop people. He said things like, "Shit." As a six year old I thought that was great. Before my time, like the generation of DJ Mad, Torch and the first hardcore graffiti generation of Hamburg, there was the Molotow Club on Reeperbahn, Defcon 5, where DJ Marius No. 1 and I think Coolmann played. We knew we weren''t there yet, like Primo for example, but that our own music would be played in clubs at some point.

      id = janelle-monae
  author = 
   title = janelle-monae
    date = 
keywords = Computer; Dirty; Janelle; Kakaire; Monáe
 summary = To answer the first part of your question, I was extremely nervous with this project and putting it out and going back on the road and trying to put together a full production of Dirty Computer because we release the emotion picture with the project and it''s such a visual experience in the concept is strong, and we wanted to figure out, well how do we articulate sonically what people are hearing to the stage? On a basic level there needs to be that connection and making sure that they come, they want to hear the songs and how can we build something special around that and just build something that hopefully when they leave the experience that they feel better about life, about themselves, more hopeful, feel celebrated, seen, loved, heard, and all those things and to question that early on. I know that you created the Wondaland Art Society really early on in your career and from what I understand, it''s like a communal space where people can come and jam and hang out and have lunch together, and all that kind of thing.

      id = jay-electronica-exhibit-ldn
  author = 
   title = jay-electronica-exhibit-ldn
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Electronica; Mao
 summary = I''m trying to explain to him that it is a project where we have folks from all over the world working on music, like-minded, and they''re basically There are a lot of people at home who do things outside of that box, but if you come from New Orleans a way where, I come from New Orleans, which is a very communal place, a lot of people don''t leave. I think I keep going back to the one thing about him, about Donuts and him doing that in the hospital on his deathbed because that speaks volumes into him doing music ten years before that. I think that, as much as people admire the music, the thing that has been as much a part of your story is going against the grain in terms of communication, as far as the industry communication.

      id = jazzie-b-funki-dred-obe
  author = 
   title = jazzie-b-funki-dred-obe
    date = 
keywords = America; Chairman; Jazzie; Mao; Soul
 summary = Back in the day, from Tom the Great Sebastian, who was probably the first major soundsystem from Jamaica, all the way to Duke Reid and Coxsone, a lot of the music they listened to or played at their dances was American R&B. our style of music and these were the things that helped to encouraged Soul II Soul to develop and create our own style, because we didn''t want to sound like anyone else. So the idea of being a Funki Dred was a mishmash of living in the West, trying to take all the cultural things we were used to, with the roots of the Marcus Garveys, Paul Bogle, all of our traditions, and making our own mash-up and we came out with our motto of "A happy face, a thumping bass for a loving race." Some of the rastas love it now, but back in the day, trust me, nah (laughs).

      id = jean-michel-jarre-laurie-anderson-lecture
  author = 
   title = jean-michel-jarre-laurie-anderson-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Anderson; Jarre; Laurie; Michel; like
 summary = Yes, I was just saying that as a French citizen, I should maybe start by saying that I wanted to be here just to actually be together today, because actually, apart from what happened in the past few hours here in this country…I mean, all of you, and partly your organization, put a lot of energy and effort to welcome lots of artists, young producers and people obsessed, I would say, interested, excited by music, and electronic music, technology, and so on, and we are facing the fact that everything has to be cancelled as a consequence of this really tragic event. You know, it''s not only the words, but I would like to focus a bit also on activities, and also the reason why I''m also happy to be here today, to be seated beside my friend Laurie, because the first time we met, I''ve been always a huge fan of her work, and actually the way she always and is still continuing doing, questioning the world through art and through different kind of art forms.

      id = jeff-mills-lecture
  author = 
   title = jeff-mills-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Detroit; Mills; Schmidt
 summary = Starting out as radio DJ the Wizard on Detroit''s WJLB before teaming up with Anthony Srock in the late ''80s to form the industrial inspired Final Cut project, Mills met former Parliament bassist "Mad" Mike Banks. The two hit it off and soon the Underground Resistance studios came into being, fusing Banks'' keyboard and synth collection with Mills'' recording equipment know-how. Well, yeah, it can be, if you''re able to find time to actually go around sightseeing, to play all this music in a very short time very smoothly, so that people would sound, the type of records and things like that. good friends and he brought his 808 into the studio, and we recorded a completely different version of it, and then soon that led to me actually making music along with three turntables in the studio for the actual show. certain mixes and things like that, then it kind of makes sense. actually hear the sound in real time and things like that.

      id = jeremy-greenspan-caught-up-in-a-soundwave-affair
  author = 
   title = jeremy-greenspan-caught-up-in-a-soundwave-affair
    date = 
keywords = Greenspan; Jeremy; Schmidt; Torsten; music
 summary = You know, like lots of people I''ve making music and stuff since I was a kid. Eventually, I got an email from a guy named Nick Kilroy who was a completely manic guy who sort of said, "Listen, I work for Warp Records" – [to audience] you guys probably know Warp Records – "We''re going to do a whole bunch of 12 inches of unknown groups and we want you guys to be one of them." I said, "Sure. For example, you might be a German musician, and you own all of your rights to your music, and you say, "I want this music to be released in Canada." You find a Canadian record label, and you say, "I''m going to license this album to you, if you''d like it, for a certain fee.

      id = jeremy-harding-keys-to-the-zimmer
  author = 
   title = jeremy-harding-keys-to-the-zimmer
    date = 
keywords = Harding; Jamaica; Laing; Man; like; music
 summary = A lot of comments I hear people say about my music is that it doesn''t sound like the regular dancehall stuff in Jamaica, it has a lot of hip-hop influence in it, sometimes a dance music thing to it. Jamaican music has been traveling the world for 40 years in different ways and that community''s style of making music, it seems like there are a lot of people involved, there''s a lot of collaborations, things that can''t be written down. With early reggae music, the cost to put together a studio… We need the same studio as everyone else to make the records, but we''re only selling 5,000 copies at less than a dollar a song, so the cost to put together the studio and how difficult it was meant the thing that came out would be, "I''m the boss, I control the studio, I''m the producer, you artists are nothing.

      id = jimmy-douglass-timbre-wolf
  author = 
   title = jimmy-douglass-timbre-wolf
    date = 
keywords = DOUGLASS; JIMMY; audience; like; member; thing
 summary = I was going to school and I knew somebody in there and they were like, "Jimmy, you got to be ready to go to college and you''re going to need a job, so let''s get you this job now." And at that time, I didn''t even know what a studio was. And I said to Jimmy, "Aw man, want me to do it again?" And he goes, "Nah man, leave it, it''s great." And I was like, "OK!" And the thing that was really funny was that all my friends who were listening and trying to copy the solo were going [hums and mimes guitar playing] ba na na na da na na na TICK! So basically, at some point, they decided that, "Wow, this guy gets some good sounds." And my thing was like, "Whatever it is that allows you to pay me to come in, I''ll be that." I knew what I wanted to do, but if that was a way to get there, then so be it.

      id = jlin
  author = 
   title = jlin
    date = 
keywords = Jlin; Member; Ravens; like
 summary = Because at that point, it really got to the point where it was like, were are you actually listening or did you just hear a publication say "Jlin footwork" and then you just started repeating it? I was working on making footwork tracks, but then I remember it was a turning point in my career when I had sampled Teena Marie''s "Portuguese Love." Like I always do, I had my mom come in and sit on the end of my bed. She heard "Erotic Heat" and she''s like, "Hey, I''m gonna just shoot you some stems and you just do what you want to do with them." And next thing I know, "Expand" came out. Yeah, she literally just shot me a whole thing of files, and she was like, "I know you gonna think I''m weird, but I''mma just shoot you all of my stems." It was a lot of stuff, it was actually so funny.

      id = joan-la-barbara-lecture
  author = 
   title = joan-la-barbara-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Barbara; Gonsher; Joan; sound; work
 summary = When I began, and I did begin this sort of in the latter years of college, to investigate the voice let''s say, I heard a lot of instrumentalists who were working with various techniques on the instruments, and I thought, "No reason why the voice can''t do similar kinds of things." Of course, there was Cathy Berberian who had introduced sort of natural sounds, gasping, laughing, coughing, screaming. I believe I started with trombone because a friend of mine Garrett List who was also a composer was willing to just sit there and play long tones for me, and I would use my voice and try to imitate the sound of the trombone, and then analyze how close I had come to that, and then began manipulating the mask, what we call the mask, our face.

      id = joe-bataan-extraordinary-joe
  author = 
   title = joe-bataan-extraordinary-joe
    date = 
keywords = Bataan; Chang; Joe; New; Salsoul; York; record
 summary = They all said: "Joe, you do the songs." George Goldner, who was responsible for Roulette Records, said, "You don''t want to sing, you sound too sweet, we need someone like James Brown." And I''m glad So people came to see me play, they''d say, "I know him, he''s the guy who took my coat in high school." I''m going to tell you a but you''ve got to be careful, some people are going to follow you." I said, "Get out of here with that cloak and dagger stuff." I traveled with these kids who became good friends of mine through the years. and it was three o''clock in the afternoon, I had a bunch of people just like this living room here today, and I said, "God, what am I going to do, everybody''s here?" And they all looked at me, "Joe, what do you want to do?

      id = joe-boyd-getting-the-brooms-out
  author = 
   title = joe-boyd-getting-the-brooms-out
    date = 
keywords = Boyd; Nick; Schmidt; music; record; thing; way
 summary = Whereas if I have a record which feels alive and feels like it breathes, like the music shifts, the rhythm shifts a little bit, and you get the feeling that all the musicians didn''t exactly know what was going to happen from each minute to the next, each second to the next, each beat to the next, I play that record more often because it puts me in that position of not being sure exactly what is coming next, which makes the listening experience more exciting for me. I just think it''s possible — this is the supposition — that the perfection that we have today, which is perfectly natural, if you do a session and you are an artist and you have a song you want to do in a certain way, and you record it, and you sing a little flat on one note, why not drop that note in?

      id = joe-goddard-freestyle-fellow
  author = 
   title = joe-goddard-freestyle-fellow
    date = 
keywords = Goddard; Hot; Joe; Warren; music
 summary = I don''t want to just sound like an advocate of London music, but I find London to be very inspiring constantly, particularly the last year or two, where there''s been a brilliant moment where people have given up on a lot of the rules of dance music, which is always a good thing. One thing I wanted to say is I''ve had this collaboration with Alexis for a lot of my life right now, 15 or 16 years, since we started going to clubs and then making music together. We started making music a really long time ago and having someone you can collaborate with is just a genius thing, I find it particularly useful when you''re creating a new piece of music for three or four hours, it feels good, you''ve got a vibe going, then sometimes my confidence just drops.

      id = joel-martin-library-of-pleasant-horrors
  author = 
   title = joel-martin-library-of-pleasant-horrors
    date = 
keywords = Janson; Martin; music; record
 summary = He is also one half of Quiet Village, alongside Matthew Edwards AKA Radio Slave, a project grounded in years of record collecting and a love of library music in which he creates music that draws from this vast knowledge, pulling in samples and moods as easily as some conjure chords on a keyboard. In his lecture at the 2008 Red Bull Music Academy, Martin explains how he operates in a "labour of love" territory, where releasing records and making albums is only a part of a wider whole, like scars which display the addiction. Back in 2001, we had wanted to start a record label for a long time and we got involved with a company called Beechwood. Especially during the ''60s and ''70s, many, many famous musicians who maybe had some spare time and wanted some extra money would do session work, and they are on some library records, but anonymously.

      id = john-dent-2006
  author = 
   title = john-dent-2006
    date = 
keywords = record
 summary = And somebody somewhere has looked out for the overall recording level, they''ve worked with the artist on getting the cross fades and the relative track levels right and the overall sound quality is generally been kept as high as it possibly can. I have on hand in my studio a good half-inch tape recorder, that I can actually take data files and reproduce them through a really high-quality D to A [digital to analogue] converter. With the CD, when Henry [Binns] heard how his tapes cut to vinyl, he decided that he actually would have the whole album put onto acetate, but beyond that it''s played back on a high quality hi-fi deck, and then converted to digital beyond that. If the track is amplified a lot in the mastering process, things like the vocals may come up as a consequence of it and actually be too loud.

      id = john-dent-extreme-makeover
  author = 
   title = john-dent-extreme-makeover
    date = 
keywords = Dent; John; Member; sound
 summary = The go-to guy for anyone seeking the analog dream in a digital world, mastering engineer John Dent started in the glory days of the industry, working at Island Records in the ''70s, and placed himself at the heart of London''s sound world, seeing the birth of the CD and the explosion of digital. I had a guy come in with an acoustic album, really struggling, because he wasn''t happy with the sound of his music, so I put that onto the vinyl lathe and he said, "That''s the first time my guitar has actually sounded like my guitar in the entire recording process." He was really happy, so we did the whole project like that. I remember having "Could You Be Loved" to cut and because vinyl is a physical medium – some sounds get accentuated, some get lost – most people like a good vibe off the record.

      id = john-talabot-everybody-loves-the-sunshine
  author = 
   title = john-talabot-everybody-loves-the-sunshine
    date = 
keywords = Janson; John; Talabot
 summary = Having broken through with "Sunshine," he''s remixed the likes of The xx and has finally recorded his debut album. In this talk at the 2011 Red Bull Music Academy, Talabot steps out from behind the mask to explain why Barcelona suits him just fine, sampling ethics suck, and you''re better off in a studio with hardly any kit. see what your music sounds like, give us one of those window-licker tracks Like, I''ll say I want to do this track with only this drum machine or OK, there was a time when people took, like, a Latin track and was, "Wow, I really like this track." They said, "Yeah, you can do a remix." know how long I''ll be in music, but I want to be happy after ten years and We like doing vinyl because it gives you some kind of status in the music business, I think.

      id = john-tejada
  author = 
   title = john-tejada
    date = 
keywords = John; Murphy; Tejada
 summary = Well like, "Planet Rock" and Arthur Baker productions was getting heavy play and in LA, we had Egyptian Lover and Uncle Jamm''s Army and they were doing appearances and a lot of DJs were specializing om that sound, like Chris "The Glove" Taylor and all that stuff, so just for a brief period you''d hear a bit of say "No UFO''s" by Model 500 mixed in with a 4/4 beat and then you''d hear more of that and maybe a little bit of early Trax Records and then somehow it just became another genre of, at least to me living in LA being a bit more out of touch than the rest of the world. Play some things when I was eight I think and then I started hearing the mix shows when I was twelve and I would hear people like Aladdin and Jo Cooley doing these tricks and I just had to learn how to do it, I''d take the home record player, you know like everybody else I''m sure messing up the home system trying to scratch and then finally getting enough money together for this really bad set of turntables to practice on.

      id = juana-molina-lecture
  author = 
   title = juana-molina-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Aguila; Juana; Molina
 summary = Yes, it was after a year and a half I spent working at home with many technical problems, which Odín Schwartz helped me to fix. It was a bit hard for me at first – assistants were checking their mobiles and I thought, "Why do I need people here while I try to come up with an idea?" Finally I managed to withdraw from it all and started to enter the "studio" mode, which is completely different, and something different happened. I always try to describe it in a different way, and the conclusion is quite the same, which is when I''m starting it''s like this here [points to CDJ decks on the table] with this play/pause button, tempo, on/off, fader, screen, whatever. And you once said that that process of recording for two years paved the way for you to know what you really wanted to do with music.

      id = julia-holter
  author = 
   title = julia-holter
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Holter; Julia
 summary = And I didn''t really know what I wanted to do with music, and I just have so many different things that I listen to and a lot of people in the school... pieces there, but I was just performing a lot with friends and then doing stuff like recording, this kind of stuff, and working on songs as well. For me, it''s like a stage or something, and I have this record or this CD-R I did, that not a lot of people know, but it''s called Celebration, and it has a recording on there that kind of looks at field recordings this way, where I layer them sometimes, and then basically you can make a 20 minute recording of you in the subway or something, and then listen back and think of it as a story, and just think about how all these things happen.

      id = junior-marvin-lecture
  author = 
   title = junior-marvin-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Bob; Marley; Marvin; Stevie; Wonder; like
 summary = What do you want?" He says, "Well I''d like you to come and work with me, join my company which is called Black Ball Music." One of the principal things that you''d have to do, you''d have to sign a contract for 10 years because you know if you play with Stevie Wonder and you leave Stevie Wonder, you will be a household name. I said, "Well I''m really honored that you would even call me, much less invite me to come and play your music which I think is very difficult to play, one, and two you could get so many great guitar players in America." He goes, "No, I heard a little bit of your style and I like the fact that you play different styles and I was just in Jamaica with Bob Marley and we did a concert together and I''m actually doing a couple of reggae songs." Which was later on of course, "Boogie On Reggae Woman", and what was the other one?

      id = just-blaze-show-me-what-you-got
  author = 
   title = just-blaze-show-me-what-you-got
    date = 
keywords = Blaze; Jay; Schmidt; like; record
 summary = So, like I said, having all those records out at one time and having my name all over the place, just all of a sudden made the perception of me that much bigger, where all of a sudden it got to the point where I''m working with artists and they''re asking me, "So, are you putting Just Blaze at the beginning of the song?" And I''d be like, "Oh no, that''s old." "No, no, no, could you please put it there?" Artists were starting to tell me that it was like people were checking or they were paying more attention to a song when they would hear that at the beginning because it already catches their attention so they''ll stop and listen for two seconds. I mean, a lot of times because of my schedule I kind of have to prioritize things and say, "OK, this person''s going to pay me upfront before having even heard a beat." It''s got to be somebody that I would want to work with still.

      id = ka-lecture
  author = 
   title = ka-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Jeff; Mao; Member
 summary = It''s the introduction of me to someone, so I want them to know the duality of man, and I''m showing you this in a song, so that was… My mother always told me to be good, my father was… Not that he ain''t tell me to be good, but he was… My father was a hood dude. I had to go to the studio, you know, get somebody to make a beat for me, it was a process, I had to pay for studio time, which was whatever, $100 an hour and all that, you know, and that''s what the start was, and you know, I was just like, yo, after that I made connections, because then you become legit, like I got a real demo, like it doesn''t have to be good, but it''s like, "Oh, he''s serious about this," so, now I make connections with other people that''s rapping and, "Oh yeah, you come to the studio for free now."

      id = kara-lis-coverdale
  author = 
   title = kara-lis-coverdale
    date = 
keywords = Coverdale; Kara; Lis; Member; Reynaldo
 summary = I want to start out today, I just listed off all of these different things that you do, and I thought it might be helpful to just start by playing a piece of music from you and then we could talk about it. I mean when you''re a music student, your entire first 15, 20 years of production is all about fitting into someone else''s glove and then you try on all these different personalities and these different ideas and ways of being, ways of thinking and ways of feeling. Clearly, you''re someone who thinks a lot about your music when you''re making it and it seems like there''s a lot of ideas of theory and history and how humans relate to technology going in and I want to show a couple more images.

      id = kardinal-offishall-lecture
  author = 
   title = kardinal-offishall-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Kardinal; Mistry; Offishall; Toronto; like; people
 summary = It''s interesting because I think what''s ironic for me about understanding the Montréal hip-hop scene more was going to France, because it''s like when you grow up, everybody, we all know about the preconceived biases that we have. I think that''s like when you think about the story of hip-hop, it''s kind of ironic, but at the same time, it''s not an irony that they attribute the beginning of it to Kool Herc, who was a Jamaican, and brought the whole sound system culture to the Bronx, you know what I''m saying? What''s amazing is the first time I ever heard that song, Common had come to Toronto and he had a show, and at the end of the show, you know, when everybody was leaving, it might have been DJ Kimo that ran in and, "Yo, I got the test pressing," and I remember they put it on in the DJ booth and they played it, and like for us like it was magical you know, hearing it put together, but hearing it in a club, like it was fucking crazy.

      id = kaytranada-lecture
  author = 
   title = kaytranada-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Kaytranada; Member; Mistry; Piu
 summary = I don''t know, I mean the thing with "Leave Me Alone", I was really inspired by Afro-house and other songs, I really like the other dances that came with the African music, everything around it. Everybody was just explaining their own… what they felt about Piu Piu. It was kind of starting to get confusing, so I didn''t know what to say sometimes, like when they interviewed me for that documentary that they was doing at the time, I was saying Piu Piu Level One is just normal beats, just sampling, and Piu Piu Level Two is just between the smooth drums and hip hop, whatever, with experimental sounds, and Piu Piu Level Three is just the craziest you can get with … the more creative you can be as a beatmaker, and that''s how the Piu Piu was seen for me at the time, but now I don''t see it that way.

      id = keiji-haino
  author = 
   title = keiji-haino
    date = 
keywords = Haino; Keiji; Warren
 summary = In his 2014 Red Bull Music Academy lecture, Haino guided us through his unique ways of thinking, his unusual DJ style, his approach to learning new instruments, and more. If you can pick those bad hit sounds and let them be a part of your music, I think instruments themselves will be happy. Some of you will have seen Haino-san last week playing at the Wails to Whispers event, we saw you playing some very extreme and loud music, and then we saw you come back on stage and play the hurdy-gurdy for 30 minutes in a very calm and meditative way. I mean, if you were assuming to come and buy your mix CD, you might think it was recorded in a club, but in fact this is – well, perhaps you could tell us, what is the music that is on the CD?

      id = ken-scott
  author = 
   title = ken-scott
    date = 
keywords = Beatles; Burns; George; Scott
 summary = Having got himself into EMI''s studio training program, his first session as an engineer was on the Beatles'' A Hard Day''s Night album. In his 2013 Red Bull Music Academy lecture, Scott discusses his time at Abbey Road, working with legends like Bowie and Lou Reed, living next door to Frank Zappa, and more. To show you how silly it got at times, Paul and I would go into the, the mic closet and he''d say, "Oh, I like the look of that one, let''s try that on bass drum." So when Geoff decided he didn''t want to work with The Beatles anymore, I was next in line, so they moved me straight up, and once again a young guy so I was eager to do it and didn''t mind the long hours or anything like that or

      id = kerri-chandler-a-basement-a-red-light-and-a-feeling
  author = 
   title = kerri-chandler-a-basement-a-red-light-and-a-feeling
    date = 
keywords = Chandler; Janson; Kerri; thing
 summary = So I''d run through the lesson as quick as I could and still would have like a half hour left, run to the other room and [it was] just pedals and [mimes wild organ playing], you know, let''s go for it. I''m doing all these mixes for all these people," and I was starting working at that time for Atlantic, and I just got my first record out with those guys, it was "Superlover" and "Get It Off" and something inside me said: "Something''s going on here. The other thing that I think would hurt a lot of clubs and I really believe this is a really big factor you can hear a song and maybe a couple of weeks later you see the artist on the stage. this song called "One Man." She inspired me for lots of stuff ''cause after I saw that I was just like, "You know, I''ve got to do some house music," ''cause

      id = kevin-saunderson
  author = 
   title = kevin-saunderson
    date = 
keywords = Derrick; Juan; Kakaire; Saunderson
 summary = So just a couple of years later Juan and Derrick released a record under the name X-Ray and I''m going to play a track called Let''s Go. And I believe, when I was kind of doing research about this, that you were observing them. He was a Detroit guy but very New York-y as far as the music style he played and influences and the way he thought about production, so I worked with him on that next record and he was the one who was like, "Well, we need to work on these vocals," That''s when I brought another vocalist in for that project, but then it changed again when Inner City came about because she just wanted to sing gospel so that was really my last time working with that singer.

      id = kim-changwan
  author = 
   title = kim-changwan
    date = 
keywords = Changwan; Sanullim; Soulscape
 summary = Like the fact that the establishment that hindered and refused to recognize us have given us fertile soil, the things that make you uncomfortable now or make you want to rebel against and resist could give you your biggest and most precious values when it comes to doing music and art. What I was most curious about was who came up with the idea to write a song with this kind of structure and whether one of the three brothers asked, "When do we finally start singing?" Also, I have heard a story from a producer who worked for a long time at KBS radio. I had the desire to make music without a central element but what I ended up making was "Motorcycle Guitar Ride." People were saying, "What kind of lyric is that?" There is a reason to why I wanted to make a song like that at the beginning.

      id = kindness-lecture
  author = 
   title = kindness-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Martin; kindness; music; people; think
 summary = His travels have informed his acclaimed work: two solo albums as Kindness, a long-time collaborative relationship with Dev Hynes, AKA Blood Orange, as well as Kelela, Robyn and Philippe Zdar of Cassius, who co-produced and mixed the first of his two LPs, World, You Need A Change of Mind. At the time, there were other things like Stardust and Daft Punk where I started to understand that these records were made up of samples rather than played instrumentation. This guy got picked, by the BBC, to be one of the panelists on what they call their annual "Sound of." Which is music people from the industry talking about who they think is going to be the next artist for the next year upcoming. Another thing that I thought about talking to you guys today was I thought I wanted to break down some stuff that might happen to you as you come into the music industry.

      id = kirk-degiorgio-planetary-folklore
  author = 
   title = kirk-degiorgio-planetary-folklore
    date = 
keywords = Degiorgio; Kirk
 summary = In this lecture at the 2005 Red Bull Music Academy, Kirk takes us on his journey of discovery: Listening to his aunt''s soul records, reading Echoes, working in record shops, taking a trip to Chicago and finally arriving at the Metroplex hub in Detroit, learning how Derrick May, Shake Shakir and Juan Atkins made seminal Detroit soul music with synths and drum machines. Which is incredibly lucky, because I think one of the main reasons and influences on people''s taste in music when they''re young is what they can hear at home on the radio. The first time I was aware of electronic manipulation and other ways to make records out of the conventions of soul and jazz was hearing Adventures Of Grandmaster Flash On The Wheels Of Steel and Double Dee and Steinski''s Lesson One, you know?

      id = kitschkrieg
  author = 
   title = kitschkrieg
    date = 
keywords = Fiji; Kris; Schmidt; Torsten; Tretti
 summary = Known for their work with popular German rap artists Trettmann, Megaloh, Joey Bargeld and Haiyti, KitschKrieg bring a focused, monochromatic aesthetic to every element of their creative output. Tretti definitely has blues in him, and he''s very gifted when it comes to writing in German, making things sound non-cheesy, and creating images and triggering emotions. You upload your music and then you find a message in your inbox from somebody saying, "Hey, I''m coming to Berlin and I think your music is super interesting, so let''s get together." So we met him and got to know him, and then we created the first KitschKrieg release. I think "Grauer Beton" is a really great example for, I don''t want to say magic, but sometimes there are things in the process of a production that you can label, one guy is working the cowbells like a pro and everybody just plays their part.

      id = kode-9-hypersonics
  author = 
   title = kode-9-hypersonics
    date = 
keywords = Benji; Burial; London
 summary = When we were sitting next door and I asked you to name some tracks you''d like to play for reference, the first six you told me were a jazz tune, a jungle tune, a disco or boogie-disco record, a deep Rhythm & Before we play some more music, I think it''s relevant to talk a bit more about clubbing experience in Scotland. "Black Sun", available to buy now on Hyperdub Recordings, which is a label that''s been going for five and a little bit years, last summer being its anniversary. label in terms of genre, it definitely has a texture or a sound and people will immediately know whether a record would We''ve got a 12 coming from him in a few weeks, which is two tracks, one called "You Know What I

      id = kode-9-kode-crackin
  author = 
   title = kode-9-kode-crackin
    date = 
keywords = Dwyer; London; NICK
 summary = I''ve never been a huge fan of 4/4 music so when the speed garage thing started to rhythmically break up and become a little more intricate and jungle-influenced and not just in the basslines but in the rhythms, kind of the early Dem 2 stuff. It wasn''t deliberately like this but people kinda heard it as some kind of connection to Berlin dub people like Rhythm & Sound, and also that time, 2003 and grime, there was a thing called the Devil Mix. People like Wiley were making these tracks that were just bass with no beats in them at all. You know, one thing I was going to ask as well, is it, kind of, seemed when grime kicked off, you had a lot of very young producers and what allowed for the growth of the music, there was so much coming out, was the fact that all these young kids had easy access to very basic software, like FruityLoops and what have you.

      id = korg-hiroaki-nishijima-tatsuya-takahashi
  author = 
   title = korg-hiroaki-nishijima-tatsuya-takahashi
    date = 
keywords = Korg; Nishijima; Schmidt; Takahashi
 summary = I think in analog synths you have more problems that you have to find workarounds to, and you have these inadequacies and little quirks in the circuits that, in the end, give the product character. But you know, I think it''s interesting because there is an analogy between how much processing power you need to actually make something that feels human. The perfect example of how physics makes sound is if you think about the way white noise is made within an analog synth. By changing what you start with and then working the filter you can create an array of different sounds, and that''s basically most of what you need to know about a synthesizer. And I actually think it''s quite liberating to be working under cost constraints because, like I said, with analog circuits you always have problems that you need to find solutions to, and in doing so, on the way, you find something else that''s quite exciting.

      id = krust-planets-rock
  author = 
   title = krust-planets-rock
    date = 
keywords = Krust; music; thing
 summary = Famed as a member of drum & bass supergroup Reprazent and the creator of the massive mid-''90s anthem "Warhead," DJ Krust is also co-founder of Bristol''s Full Cycle crew, along with Roni Size, DJ Die and Suv. He is loved by fans and peers for his envelope-pushing releases and a rare ability to come on strong while always retaining an infectious sense of funk. I gave it to a few people, Roni kind of got it and then, eventually, after a while, we were all playing it for a while, and about a year later I think it really took off and the clubs really started to embrace it. And I think it''s a pretty interesting model to talk about, Reprazent getting signed, because, as with many underground scenes there comes a point, maybe a tipping point, where major record labels or whatever vehicle it will be in the future, start to sniff around.

      id = kutcha-edwards-country-got-soul
  author = 
   title = kutcha-edwards-country-got-soul
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Edwards; Mao; Member
 summary = When I had the opportunity, Wolf called me or I called him and said, "Yep, I''ll do it." For you to not only listen to me, and get an understanding of where my music is coming from and where it''s going, it gives me the opportunity to tell the world, the reality, of what is happening. Blackfire was a band that sang about the struggle of indigenous peoples and that''s where the activism started to come and we were writing about "give us back our land." Anybody here heard of a band called No Fixed Address? I go to a lot of schools, to a lot of businesses, to talk about cultural immersion and how to deal with indigenous issues, but they are still trying to fix the problem, rather than coming to us and saying, "How can we fix this problem?" They think they know and they don''t. It''s a shame being an indigenous person in this country, and our people trying to mimic something from the States, do you know what I mean?

      id = laetitia-sadier
  author = 
   title = laetitia-sadier
    date = 
keywords = Dwyer; Laetitia; Sadier; Stereolab; Tim
 summary = For many young indie music fans making their way through the "alternative" section of their local record store in the mid-''90s, it was the music of Stereolab, and in particular the voice of chanteuse Lætitia Sadier, that provided a pre-internet window into the worlds of French New Wave, German krautrock and a sprinkling of Marxist politics. Yes. Yeah, and I think maybe that''s what Tim wanted to get away from, because Tim''s priority was the music and not the politics, so there''s probably a point of tension right there. It was the first album that I discovered of Stereolab and it was one of these moments where for a lot of young people around the world, we really got opened up to a wonderful world of electronic music we didn''t know existed before, and these instruments like Moogs and Vox/Farfisa.

      id = larry-gold
  author = 
   title = larry-gold
    date = 
keywords = Gold; Larry; Mao; Philadelphia
 summary = A classically trained prodigy who began playing the cello at age seven, Philadelphia native Larry Gold has worked on countless hit records over the past four decades. In his lecture at RBMA Berlin 2018, Larry Gold discussed learning and making music in Philadelphia, the Philly sound, creating emotional depth with string arrangements and his composition process. So just to sort of reset, even though we have Larry playing a little bit this morning, let''s hear something that he arranged for Jill Scott. You said it''s all sort of by feel, but when you''re writing the arrangement, something like this, you notice just as a neophyte, as a lay person, who doesn''t study music necessarily formally, you hear just the strings follow the cadence of her singing at different points, whatever countermelodies that you''re sort of exploring.

      id = larry-heard-2018
  author = 
   title = larry-heard-2018
    date = 
keywords = Heard; Larry; Ravens; Robert; chal
 summary = [laughs] I just wanted to start with that particular track, ''cause I think it encapsulates quite a lot of aspects, of your sound, maybe? So a good buddy of mine made the suggestion of, "Why don''t you just put it out yourself?" Which turned a light bulb on top of both our heads, and said, "Yeah, let''s do some research, and see how this is done." And even the first two releases didn''t have a label name or anything, ''cause I didn''t know how you go about establishing a name, and that kind of a thing. Once I left my bands, maybe about ''84, I start seeing some clubs, which is late for some people who''ve been in there since the ''70s, but then once I really stumbled across these clubs, I was interested in, what other music are you playing that I never heard, ''cause somethings are deemed inappropriate for radio, of course.

      id = larry-heard-fingers-inc-lecture
  author = 
   title = larry-heard-fingers-inc-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Gerd; Heard; Janson; Larry
 summary = Yeah, that''s when I started, sort like that period between ''77 and ''84 was where I kind of stumbled into the whole blossoming house music scene or movement or whatever you want to call it. It ended up being a totally different version, because the thing I did, it was done at home, I don''t know if it was a reel-to-reel or a cassette or something like that, but it was something very low budget, very nuts-and-bolts kind of a thing, and so I don''t think the recording quality was up to what they were trying to release, so we went into a studio and did another rendition of it.

      id = lars-bartkuhn-needs-not-wants
  author = 
   title = lars-bartkuhn-needs-not-wants
    date = 
keywords = Bartkuhn; Member; Murphy
 summary = He''s aiming for longevity, combining influences like classic deep house, soul, funk or Brazilian music with modern jazz elements. Together with his brother Marek and Yannick Elverfeld he set up Needs Music in 1999, a production threesome and label based in Frankfurt that rose to international fame among music lovers and dancers with songs like "Worlds." For his solo projects, Bartkuhn also uses the names Laurentius and Passion Dance Orchestra, to spell out his deep love of fusion music. My friend Anthony Nicholson, a producer from Chicago, they listen to a lot of ''80s stuff that is not the obvious ''80s music. But I think that they were inspired by music like that Funkanova tune. Of course there''s cats around like Osunlade who knows to do music that just sounds like… It would make our music much more organic." And I said, "No, no, I like these cheesy guitar sounds of the synthesizer." Or whatever, you know.

      id = laurent-garnier-lecture
  author = 
   title = laurent-garnier-lecture
    date = 
keywords = France; Garnier; Martin; garni
 summary = We were doing a radio show called Radio Teenager in his house every Friday night, and we were doing like a four–hour show, playing all different kinds of music. And then Friday night, you had Mike Pickering with another guy, and they were playing a mixture of electro, and the beginning of house… And then I think Thursday''s was Temperance Club, and that was only strictly rock, because of course Manchester, the number of pop-rock bands from there… They had lots of different nights. I was actually living in a small suburban town in France, which was boring as hell, and then I went to London and was going out every night and everybody, you know, all colors, whatever, they way they were dressing and whoever they were, were mixing together in clubs.

      id = laurie-anderson
  author = 
   title = laurie-anderson
    date = 
keywords = Anderson; Burns; like
 summary = I went there and I was trying to do a lot of things because sound installations are something… I do try to make a violin the size of a ten-story building using lots of harmonics and different kinds of ways that you can structure sound, or use speakers, and so, I was thinking of trying to do something like that. I spent a lot of time in Africa talking to him and just saying, "Mohammed, you know what…" Again like the earlier thing I said, "What is your motivation in doing this?" And he said, "My motivation is to help my brothers in Guantanamo." And I said, "Mohammed, I can''t say this is going to help your brothers in Guantanamo." I mean, I can say that if Americans hear your story as it is, that there will be a number of people who will hear it and, a boy who''s tortured and then thrown away at the end, thrown in a country, they don''t even tell you where you are or didn''t tell your family where you''re thrown.

      id = legowelt-building-bricks
  author = 
   title = legowelt-building-bricks
    date = 
keywords = Dwyer; Hague; Nick
 summary = In this talk at the 2005 Red Bull Music Academy in Seattle, Legowelt guides us through his favorite Hague records, how he works with his multiple aliases and the strange relationship with his most famous track, "Disco Rout." Hailing from the Hague in Holland, you might know him from records he''s released on labels like Bunker, Crème Organization, Cocoon, and Ghostly International. Well, yeah, of course I heard the Italo disco on the pirate radio stations and stuff, but rock music hasn''t played much of a role in my youth. Well, actually, the first record shop in The Hague that specialized in Chicago and Detroit music, and played an important role for Unit Moebius and Bunker, was Hotmix, and it was run by Ferenc. You were aware of Bunker Records'' importance in the Hague and liked the music coming out from it.

      id = leon-ware-come-with-me-angels
  author = 
   title = leon-ware-come-with-me-angels
    date = 
keywords = Leon; Marvin; Member; Schmidt; Ware
 summary = Think of it like this, I look at the world as my lover, and we have been making love for a looong time and we still find new and interesting ways to do the same thing. I feel like what I look at now is the group of people or this mind-set that you are in — young people, you have such a wonderful time in front of you because not only with the facilities that we have whereas from Pro Tools to the different sequencers and stuff you have that to work with, you get the internet — there is a lot of things that are plus.

      id = leroy-burgess-boogie-on-burgess
  author = 
   title = leroy-burgess-boogie-on-burgess
    date = 
keywords = Burgess; CHAIRMAN; JEFF; MAO
 summary = With his signature warm baritone voice and tension-building keyboard riffs, Leroy Burgess contributed to the success of many different projects over more than three decades – with Black Ivory, Aleem, Fonda Rae, Intrigue and Inner Life, and as Conversion and Logg amongst other pseudonyms. this particular time, the record companies were a little dubious, you know? know, other instruments come in and help you feel like groovin'', next thing I think that we could start with a song I did with a group called The I said: "OK, time for me to move on." Like I said, I wanted to bop the music a little bit – pick it up. Black Ivory come on stage with two songs, you know, just let us sing "Love On write songs or to produce records, it''s a good idea to learn how to play

      id = lido-pimienta
  author = 
   title = lido-pimienta
    date = 
keywords = Colombia; Lido; Mistry; Pimienta; music; people
 summary = In 2018, she signed with American label Anti, reissuing La Papessa in anticipation of her new record, Miss Colombia, which continues to explore Afro-Colombian music traditions and ideas of ownership and identity through Pimienta''s unique lens. He started sending me all these terrible messages and one of the messages was, "If you don''t come back to me, I will put naked photos of you online." New to Canada, I didn''t really have a community and the few friends that I did have were my white friends that they''re, "Go to the police." It''s like, "I can''t explain to you how that''s not gonna work for me." I did everything that I could to not have this guy harass me and I had to call my mom. Just like my team, my management, they''re awesome and they really help me in the things that I want to do and I always have a wild idea after another and you need people to tell you, "Yes. This is awesome." Instead of, "Really?" When people start saying that to you, cut.

      id = linn-da-quebrada
  author = 
   title = linn-da-quebrada
    date = 
keywords = Linn; Miguel; Quebrada
 summary = In this public lecture in Lisbon, Linn Da Quebrada spoke at length about her personal philosophies, the socio-political importance of her work and the need for continued challenge of the status quo to achieve true change. For this reason, I think that I started realizing and knowing that Brazil is a country where we were taught, raised, persuaded and programed to be polite and to receive too, with so much cordiality, violence, right? And when I saw her singing for the first time and when I saw what she could do with people around her, I said, "I want to do that too." And not necessarily in the same frequency as she, but I realized that she was able to gain access to people through music but through a different path. I think that precisely by understanding what I needed to listen to, I realized that people talk about love exhaustively.

      id = lonnie-liston-smith-and-gilles-peterson
  author = 
   title = lonnie-liston-smith-and-gilles-peterson
    date = 
keywords = Liston; RBMA; Smith
 summary = Lonnie Liston Smith learned his trade in the late ''60s and early ''70s playing with jazz giants such as Rahsaan Roland Kirk, Pharoah Sanders and Miles Davis. Keeping with that Bristol cosmic connection, again, one of Bristol''s favorite musical sons, Roni Size, sampled Lonnie Liston Smith on a track called "Shadows."now The track he sampled is called "Shadows," and his track was "Brown Paper Bag," which came out on the label of my other guest today, Mr Gilles Peterson [applause]. Gilles, as a fan of all kinds of jazz, you said at the beginning that one of the main attractions of Lonnie Liston Smith was this kind of fusion… As a fan, what was it like to listen to these out-there records for the first time? I was with Miles, and Bob Thiele called me and said, "Lonnie, you''ve got to do a record.

      id = lorenzo-senni-lecture
  author = 
   title = lorenzo-senni-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Host; Lorenzo; Senni
 summary = That kind of experiencing this but from a very different point of view, enjoying it but not being interested, really, in maybe all the things that were happening, but not really judging, was very important to develop this idea of rave voyeurism that I transposed in my music, or I tried. That''s a good segue into something else I wanted to ask you about that sounds like it might have been kind of terrible at times. It was, "OK, we''re going to make the money, and then release our stuff, print our t-shirts, make our stickers." I like this idea of making things. So yeah, was a very particular moment in my life, and I got obsessed, and I met this very good teacher, a jazz teacher, quite famous in Italy, and I started to play drums, because I wanted to put together a band.

      id = luther-campbell
  author = 
   title = luther-campbell
    date = 
keywords = Host; Luke; Miami; Pac; like
 summary = At that time, that''s when I brought the 2 Live Crew down to do a show for me at the teen disco and then I said, "Look, I got this other song called ''Throw the D'' and ''Throw the P'' – the girls throw the P and the guys throw the D." These dudes just screwed me right here; they didn''t do a show for me. It really wasn''t too much of a relationship but I originally took 2 Live Crew to Pretty Tony and said, "Hey look, I''m not in the music business I''m into doing concerts." I wanted my own thing.

      id = mad-mike-banks-tresor-berlin-detroit-lecture
  author = 
   title = mad-mike-banks-tresor-berlin-detroit-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Banks; Berlin; Detroit; Hegemann; Mike; Schmidt; Stoiber
 summary = Well, you heard things in there from Detroit, from LA, from Paris, from Belgium, from Berlin, Germany, from Durban in South Africa, and a bunch of others, and I guess the idea was to show that even if you don''t use any vocals, even if you don''t have any classic signifiers of placing something geographically, it is a language that''s spoken around the world right now, and it is super versatile, and even if you''re only hearing a few bars of something, you can instantly get a feel of "Oh, I know this is from that place." And we somehow believe, with all these hyped places that there are in the world, people put way too little emphasis on their actual surroundings, and that is what we want these fine people to talk about today.

      id = madlib-2016
  author = 
   title = madlib-2016
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Jeff; Madlib; Mao
 summary = And you spent a lot of that time in your room actually working on beats and stuff too right? "Rapper''s Delight" was the first song I heard where I was like "oh take that beat and do something over it." So I started collecting records after that ... But at the time, I hate to make these generalizations in terms of east coast versus west coast, but I mean were you cognizant that some of the records you were into were coming from New York versus hip-hop from the Bay? I''d rent vibraphones and all types of instruments and things and he was like, "Yeah, let''s do it, let''s do it." Anything I said I wanted to do, he was with it. As far as Madlib Invazion, but the record label it started five years ago or something like that. How often, when you guys hung out, was it just listening to records like this and stuff?

      id = madlib-king-of-the-beats
  author = 
   title = madlib-king-of-the-beats
    date = 
keywords = Madlib; Member
 summary = In his 2002 Red Bull Music Academy lecture, Madlib revealed the secrets of his favorite studio equipment, the story behind his Quasimoto alias, his work as Yesterday''s New Quintet, and more. We got, all the way from Los Angeles, California, Otis Jackson, aka Madlib, Quasimoto, Yesterdays New Quintet [laughs]. Basically, I was in the studio on some mushrooms by myself and I didn''t have no MCs around, and when I rap I don''t like my voice anyways, so I wanted to try something different. I bought some instruments ''cause I listen to all them records with Fender Rhodes and vibraphones and upright bass and stuff, so I wanted to see if I can get all that stuff and try to learn it and do my own thing, you know? When you are recording the drums first do you use any kind of metronome or something like that?

      id = makoto-jazz-hip-jap
  author = 
   title = makoto-jazz-hip-jap
    date = 
keywords = Makoto; Warren
 summary = Tokyo-born Makoto made a name for himself in the drum & bass scene thanks to killer keys and melodies, exemplified across various solo and collaborative projects for labels such as LTJ Bukem''s Good Lookin'' Records. We''re very lucky because we''ve got Makoto on the couch today, best known for his very musical take on drum & bass. Before we talk about how you got signed, I think we should talk about some of the music from Bukem and from Good Looking that really inspired you because he had a really specific sound, didn''t he? Yeah, and since then, I released a few 12"s, and then few years after, he just asked me if I want to be a exclusive for Good Looking. OK, but you still carried on making drum & bass, and releasing music on Good Looking during this period, didn''t you? That''s really good to have one MC, because I play musical drum & bass stuff, and she knows what I''m doing.

      id = mala-5-db-to-perfection
  author = 
   title = mala-5-db-to-perfection
    date = 
keywords = London; Mala; music
 summary = It''s kind of strange, because, like I said, [with] how the track started… I always find that music has a life of its own once you put it in the public domain, because you never know where it''s going to go or how people are going to react to it. Basically what we do is when we''ve finished making music we take it to Transition, which is the mastering studio where a massive percentage of the people that I know doing this sound get their stuff not only cut on to dubplate but also mastered. But we just had a kind of, like I guess a lot of people do with their friends, that your common thing is that you all love this music, and from there you might find that you may be like-minded in other ways.

      id = malcolm-cecil-lecture
  author = 
   title = malcolm-cecil-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Bob; Cecil; England; Gil; Moog; Schmidt; Stevie; TONTO; music
 summary = I don''t know, but it didn''t have any forms in the music that was interesting stuff, I got the impression they were just recording, running the tape and playing with the knobs and seeing what came out. I ended up going to New York, basically on my way home, and did a six-week stint at the Record Plant as chief engineer, during which time I learned a great deal and met a lot of very good people, and met the gentleman who later introduced me to Stevie first started putting this T.O.N.T.O.''s Expanding Head Band stuff together, particularly "Jetsex," which doesn''t have any pitched sounds until the very end, it''s only got like three notes in the whole piece and we asked the question, "Is this music?" I went

      id = mandy-parnell
  author = 
   title = mandy-parnell
    date = 
keywords = Mandy; Parnell; Ravens; work
 summary = In her 2018 Red Bull Music Academy lecture, Parnell discussed her work with artists like Björk and Aphex Twin, the intricacies of her studio set-up and the importance of staying in touch with the emotions of the music during the mastering process. I''d started working out of the studio in my house, which was set up more as a writing room, and then went into more of a room for me to explore my theories, because I was doing quite a crazy journey into theory of mastering at that time. Exploring theories about gain structuring, exploring theories about signal flow, testing lots of different equipment, really going into a journey about digital audio and file formats, which I''ve had the pleasure of being involved with teams like Mastered for iTunes.

      id = mannie-fresh-m-rules-the-nation
  author = 
   title = mannie-fresh-m-rules-the-nation
    date = 
keywords = Fresh; New; Orleans; money
 summary = like yesterday – I said, "Oh shit!" And he said, "What did you say?" I thought, "This is hip-hop right here." My dad grew up on breakbeats and Marvin Gaye, more soul music, but when "Planet Rock" came along it was, "This is where I fit in, right here." I remember when "Sucker MCs/It''s Like That" came out – you couldn''t anywhere in New Orleans without hearing that song. The crazy thing is if you know Juvenile, that song fits him perfectly because there''s like five people living inside of him. I was just like, "Damn, this is coming together so so cool." I was saying the rhyme inside my head while I was doing it, because I knew the song from him doing it and when I played the beat for him, he was like, "I don''t know dude, I kind of like the beat the way..." "Just try it, when it breaks down and the drums change on the

      id = mannie-fresh-new-orleans-2011
  author = 
   title = mannie-fresh-new-orleans-2011
    date = 
keywords = Fresh; Mao; New; Orleans
 summary = In a public conversation in New Orleans, Mannie Fresh discussed Nola rap history, his time with Cash Money Records, the effects and aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, and more. [laughs] I just got, like I said, a brutal reality check of, "You know what? thing, was just somebody who happened to be in New Orleans, and they was like, "We want some of bounce is kind of like, it''s old school New York hip-hop. labels and people going, "Hey, you should do your own thing, man, you''ve got beats or whatever, it would be hot." It was more of me taking elements of old-school hip-hop, going, "OK, if I could put new beats over this and y''all actually get it…" Like I said, the rest is history. going to put another song out." That''s kind of like the south model. You know, it''s like, OK, you''ve got elements from that guy too.

      id = manuel-gottsching
  author = 
   title = manuel-gottsching
    date = 
keywords = Göttsching; Manuel; Mao; Tempel
 summary = In the early ''70s, he co-founded and played lead guitar for pioneering krautrock group Ash Ra Tempel, which in addition to releasing several heralded albums, inspired space rock and psychedelic bands like Philadelphia''s Hash Jar Tempo. The problem was, I didn''t know any very much English at the time, so I tried to make sounds that sounded a little bit English, like that what I heard on the radio. We thought, ''Oh, we try this type of style.'' At the same time, another influence, which was an influence in Germany and in German music, it was free jazz. There were also blues musicians coming there and playing, so we got a little bit influence, but not really from the free music, free jazz scene.

      id = marc-acardipane
  author = 
   title = marc-acardipane
    date = 
keywords = Acardipane; Germany; Host; Marc; like
 summary = One was Lenny Dee from New York, the other guy was from N-Joi from London who mixed later The Prodigy''s "Firestarter." He was a techno artist at that point and then we go to the car and I thought, "Hey wasn''t that the guys who play in the other club?" and Thorsten said, "Yeah, I think so." "What are they doing here in the rain?" We go there and nobody told them which hotel they are in, so they sit there and we take them home and Lenny saw the studio and he said, "Can you play something?" I play him "We Have Arrived" and he listened to this track, I don''t know six hours, really, and then he gave me money and said, "Man, I wanna release that in America." This became then the first record on his label, Industrial Strength, and we released it also in Germany, so it was a sub-license for him.

      id = marco-passarani-the-pope-is-analogue
  author = 
   title = marco-passarani-the-pope-is-analogue
    date = 
keywords = Janson; Marco; Passarani; Rome
 summary = Since then, he''s been immersed in the scene, running labels, making his music and DJing all over. Like, thanks to I-f, the guy who played the other day, I see how Italo-disco was relevant to the start of house. guys going to Unity and buying the right records and bringing them back to the city. because the music was more popular, records were selling more. Also because there was only one record label in Rome, Sounds Never import some records we like, try to sell them to everyone. we were selling stuff to 30 stores, we had records that were more popular that things from my label and I''ll stop playing other people''s stuff, but I have to This was the kind of stuff we were all playing, this was the music in our Why not say you don''t care about business and just sell your stuff to other labels?

      id = marcus-intalex-the-liquidator
  author = 
   title = marcus-intalex-the-liquidator
    date = 
keywords = INTALEX; MARCUS
 summary = So, usually the crowd wants to hear me play drum & bass which I don''t mind doing because I love it, but the second point is where I''d love to say, "Let''s drop tempo for half an hour, and let''s go doing something different." I don''t think we ever actually got a track played at Blue Note, which is a bit of a shame, but it was bad a few years for us in the studio, basically. So we''ll experiment with beats first and give them a rhythm that we like, and then I start playing the sounds on the top adding a few samples, and then maybe after that the bassline comes. And when we know what samples we might want to use, we''ll try a few like maybe at Recycle, like what are the loops or just look for little sounds.

      id = mario-caldato-jr-surfing-the-meterbridge
  author = 
   title = mario-caldato-jr-surfing-the-meterbridge
    date = 
keywords = Beastie; Caldato; Chairman; Jr.; Mao
 summary = Mario Caldato Jr. is a producer and studio engineer best known for wiling away many a long hour (or week, or month, or year) with the Beastie Boys. Born in Brazil, he developed his recording techniques with the variety of early ''80s acts and attitudes that made up Delicious Vinyl before going on to work with some of the biggest names in the business. start a label." I was like, "OK," and the next week he said, "I got a budget And he was like, "We''ve got to do their record." He wanted to do it and he needed help doing it, and so he But it really started off musically, like the first half of the record, ten songs, were playing at the same time and it turned out to be a song on the record. record some stuff here." Oh, great, and we worked on a few tracks,

      id = mark-pritchard-global-communicator
  author = 
   title = mark-pritchard-global-communicator
    date = 
keywords = Pritchard; RBMA
 summary = In the very early ''90s Mark Pritchard stepped into the music business, teaming up with Tom Middleton to form Global Communication and record many different styles of music under various project names. I started making music in my spare time while I was a chef. Yeah, just like local clubs, and a friend of mine started to promote local tunes that I like." He just said: "I make music and I work with this guy It''s like techno had to be a certain thing, house had to be then went to do some house music, then people were like: "That''s not a techno Then he said: "Do you want to do an album?" I was like, "Yeah, OK. When you do a remix like this, did he want you to do a certain sound, put If I''m doing the remix ''cause I like the track, then I will maybe try and keep

      id = mark-ronson-here-comes-the-buzz
  author = 
   title = mark-ronson-here-comes-the-buzz
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Mao; Mark; Ronson
 summary = A DJ since the early ''90s, British ex-pat Mark Ronson moved to New York and worked his way up to an album deal with Elektra Records, for the underrated Here Comes The Fuzz. In his 2010 Red Bull Music Academy lecture, Ronson talks about dealing with celebrity, DJing, producing, and working with stars like the late Amy Winehouse. Amy and said, "I''ve got these guys that should record our stuff, these songs At that time Q-Tip and I started a party called Authentic Shit where we just played stuff we thought was great, a lot of golden era hip-hop. When it was time to start working on my new record again this past summer, I just wheeled in about 12 keyboards to Tommy and Homer''s studio and was like, "All right, now we are using this." It was great.

      id = marley-marl-tokyo-2014
  author = 
   title = marley-marl-tokyo-2014
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Mao; Marl; Marley; Member; like
 summary = Hailing from Queens, Marley Marl revolutionized hip-hop when he pioneered the practice of sampling drum sounds and creating his own proto-boom-bap rhythms, yielding gems like MC Shan''s joyfully noisy (and unintentionally beef-inducing) QB anthem "The Bridge." The sonic architect of Cold Chillin'' Records and the Juice Crew, Mr. Marl was one of rap''s first super-producers, crafting huge hits for Eric B. That I used in "Impeach the President," kick and snare, but… That song was sampled by so many R&B records to present time right now, and the good thing about making record for me back in the day, I mean... I mean, I know a lot of people who are DJing, producing, and started out early, like me, around that same time. Biggies, he''s really dope man." He said, "Yeah, I''m ready to come out, and do you think people''s going to like me?

      id = marshall-allen-danny-thompson-lecture
  author = 
   title = marshall-allen-danny-thompson-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Allen; Mao; Sun
 summary = I was late for work and came in all blurry-eyed because I sit up there all night listening to Sun Ra''s philosophy and things like that, and music. Other than that, I would come to rehearsal and I got the music and he says, "Oh, you''re playin'' it but you playin'' it too sentimental and you''re playin'' it this way, and you''re not playing it right." I mean, but from your ears, you identified it right away, Sun Ra''s music didn''t sound like other jazz artists at the time. We went in to rehearse and when he come out, he got up out of the gutter and wiped his dirty hands on his dirty clothes and wanted to shake everybody''s hand cos the music got him out the gutter, because he said, "Oh, I never heard anything like that in my life." To make a better world, you see?

      id = martyn-great-depths
  author = 
   title = martyn-great-depths
    date = 
keywords = Benji; Martyn; music
 summary = Martyn was first inspired to take up music by the drum & bass sounds he heard pouring out of London in the ''90s. In this lecture from the 2010 Red Bull Music Academy in London, Martyn talks about why he starts his tunes in the middle, but always gives them a beginning and an end, the difference between biting and showing your influences and how he hooked up with the mighty Brainfeeder crew. promoter there and he was like, "What sort of music do you play? explain to people what sort of music you DJ." "I don''t know, it''s so many different up a little bit like we did here, so people know that I''m playing now basically. I think if you make music that sounds like FlyLo, then you''re definitely not still think that if music is good, it deserves to be heard by a lot of people.

      id = martyn-ware-designing-heaven
  author = 
   title = martyn-ware-designing-heaven
    date = 
keywords = League; Martyn; Sheffield; Ware; Warren; sound; thing; time
 summary = Martyn Ware has long been at the razor-sharp edge of electronic music, both as a founder and member of seminal bands like The Human League and, more lately, through his eye-widening, ear-enlivening explorations into sound design and sonic art. there''s a resilience about that environment, that working class urban environment, that makes you want to go out and do shit rather than just go to concerts and watch people and kind of go: "Oh well, you know, I can''t be And actually, what happened for us, we ended up sounding like we came from Mars at that time, to be honest. We did most of it in our studio in Sheffield and then came to mix it and overdub in London and we couldn''t believe it, people paid for us to stay in this studio.We could have as many BLTs as we wanted at any time day or night and like, "Oh

      id = maseo
  author = 
   title = maseo
    date = 
keywords = COGNITO; Maseo
 summary = like, "I really got some other stuff I want to play for you." That was the Street, like a year prior to us really connecting, and Dave wrote the rhymes featuring MC Ricky D at the time, and we was like, "Wow, a four-man group, two That was the inspiration to be like, "Yeah, we going to be different. other, but it now seems to be like, "Yo, B, I got this beat, I''m going to pass He and I, like, a lot of good times. story and situation like Ali. Back in them days, a lot with the group efforts, responsibilities than everybody else, I''m like, "We got to get this paper, At that point in time, if you really didn''t know, because you would be like, Yo, for real, when I come out, they think I''m Samoan or something like that he''s like, "De La, thinking of me?" Everybody looked to meet the challenge,

      id = masters-at-work
  author = 
   title = masters-at-work
    date = 
keywords = Dope; Kenny; Louie; Reynaldo; Vega
 summary = "Little" Louie Vega and Kenny "Dope" Gonzalez have spent more than 20 years together, shepherding dance music down new paths with their inventive production style and imaginative feel for different musical forms. Synonymous with the rise and peak of New York City house music, Kenny Dope and Louie Vega met through their mutual friend Todd Terry, resulting in a fruitful production partnership full of timeless hits. What is exciting is the gentlemen seated next to me, who are basically, if we are talking about dance music or even beyond that, in New York City; these two guys are some of the most influential and legendary figures of the past 20 years, in fact we''re pretty much at the 20th anniversary of when they started putting out music. to play a lot of different styles of music, because that''s what people wanted going to play a song called "Justa Lil'' Dope." You guys, I hope you know this

      id = matana-roberts-lecture
  author = 
   title = matana-roberts-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Coin; Matana; Member; Mistry; Roberts; thing
 summary = During that time I would workshop some of my music, in kind of like, live rehearsals for people to see, and also still workshop my music in New York, and other places around the world. How much of your… when you''re talking about this actually being quite mapped out and you knowing the different ensembles that you want to work with, so in the actual process of recording or performing this music live, how much of it is improvised or just a composition? When did you make the mental shift like, "This is not the only way I need to make or play music," because I don''t know if that occurs to a lot of people? I feel like it''s representative of a previous time that I actually have talked about in the music because I thought, people will listen to this music and they''ll be able to see beyond ideas of race and difference and gender and class.

      id = mathew-jonson-first-compression-counts
  author = 
   title = mathew-jonson-first-compression-counts
    date = 
keywords = DWYER; JONSON; NICK; like; mathew
 summary = The synthesizer that I use the most right now is an SH-101 Roland and there are general MIDI presets with 101 synthesizers, and I''d been using a lot of that kind of stuff already it was really strange, actually, because I didn''t know anything about raves or house and techno music until that point. Stuff like "Decompression," that we heard before, is probably what most people in recent times know you for musically. And also, too, I find that if I''ve mixed on a pair of Genelecs or something like that, because they are such good speakers, and they are so responsive, you can actually get into all these rhythms and stuff like that where you think it''s so cool, because all these little rhythms that are being created by really minuscule things, that are so exact because the speakers are so in tune, you put that in a club with a bunch of reverb, and all of a sudden that''s not there anymore.

      id = matias-aguayo-a-free-spirit
  author = 
   title = matias-aguayo-a-free-spirit
    date = 
keywords = Aguayo; Cologne; Janson
 summary = The much-travelled Matias Aguayo always brings a sense of adventure to his music, be it on Cologne''s celebrated Kompakt label or his own Cómeme imprint. And a lot of these people are still doing music today, at that time in a less organized way. But this was the context in which I came to Cologne and I heard DJs like Michael Mayer who was playing a lot of DJ Pierre, like Wild Pitch house music. Suddenly, you can start concentrating on details, whereas the main idea, which I think is the most important thing, gets lost a little bit. Oh yeah, actually it had a bit to do with the fact that all this music thing became a bit more professionalized and suddenly there were all these genres we didn''t like. You start learning how to make people dance, what music you can play at what moment, the relationship to the soundsystem.

      id = matmos-who-needs-records
  author = 
   title = matmos-who-needs-records
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Daniel; Drew; Martin; Schmidt; like
 summary = So one of the things we were thinking about in terms of the ways that medical technology makes sound, of course, that is recording the sound of surgery itself. It has been weird to have people listen to that record and have them say, "I liked it until I found out what it was and I didn''t want to hear it any more." And I kind of love the idea that you can love something sonically, but then you can be so disgusted by what''s contained a record, that is a version of a Pasolini movie, like Salò, which you see once and every time you think of it, it makes you think, "I never want It''s worth thinking about if you make electronic music, because it''s so easy to participate in a scene and to get the sounds and the production tics and tricks that are cool right now, the last ten records you heard this month.

      id = maurice-fulton-a-little-left-of-the-middle
  author = 
   title = maurice-fulton-a-little-left-of-the-middle
    date = 
keywords = Fulton; Janson; Maurice
 summary = I love vinyl, but when you''re travelling, it gets kind of expensive for extra luggage, and I like to carry a whole lot of records. Yes, that kick sound like it''s out of place. Challenge of DJing is excellent for me because I don''t know none of the people, and I have no idea what they like, and sometimes, when I play, it''s a good party, and other times it''s not. You don''t know, and it just gets challenging, just trying to put people onto new music, or classics. I try to mix it up a little bit, but certain classics, I just like to hear in the club very loud. Looking at places like Zanzibar back then, to clubs right now? Some clubs play just certain type of music, like trance or R&B, hip-hop. Because there''s a lot of artists that sound like each other, and for me, it''s hard to tell the difference.

      id = melvin-van-peebles-dont-write-a-check-your-ass-cant-cash
  author = 
   title = melvin-van-peebles-dont-write-a-check-your-ass-cant-cash
    date = 
keywords = Melvin; Peebles; Schmidt; van
 summary = He is a true pioneer in an extraordinary array of fields – the first black movie director of the modern age, one of the first people to talk over music and, thus, a progenitor of hip-hop – at one time, he even managed to become the only black trader on the American Stock Exchange. I wrote a book and someone got on my cable car – he was a grip man, you know, who used to work the cable cars… And the guy said, "You know your book is just like a movie." I said, "Shit, I''ll go into the movies." But there was one little thing: I didn''t have any music. I''m very political and you have to keep your audience interested to tell the story, and when I won the festival in San Francisco with my first French feature, I had no money and so I went back to New York, where I was living on a park bench.

      id = metro-boomin-sonny-digital-zaytoven
  author = 
   title = metro-boomin-sonny-digital-zaytoven
    date = 
keywords = Boomin; Digital; Schmidt; Zay
 summary = He called me like, "Hey man, Young Jeezy want to do a song with us." At the time, I didn''t really know who Young Jeezy was, but Gucci keep his ear to the streets. I made the beat in like 5 minutes, we got to hurry up and get to the studio, because Gucci said Jeezy going to do a song with us. Do something else." At the time, I don''t want to say I was arrogant, but my feelings were hurt in a way, to the point where like, "Oh he don''t like my beat?" I told Gucci, "No. Let''s do the song we came down here to do." It''s good for everybody, "Zay going hard, Zay the truth." Then you start listening to people asking about Sonny Digital, then "I need some Metro." It''s like, "Wait a minute, hold on, what you mean?

      id = mia-makin-it-appen
  author = 
   title = mia-makin-it-appen
    date = 
keywords = India; M.I.A.; music
 summary = Her first two albums, 2005''s Arular and its follow up Kala two years later, featured production from Diplo, Switch and Sheffield''s Cavemen, who helped M.I.A craft a sound capable of appealing to both the clubs and the charts and turn her into a global icon. At the time I was still touring Arular, so I sent this track into Interscopeand said: "This is what I want do, I want to meet this guy, duh, duh, duh." I think people were really And I was working with Dave Switch, who, I don''t know how to say this, but he consumes a lot of beer, like a bottle a minute, and he''d be loading up empty bottles. If people like the outcome, that''s really cool, but when I was making it, it was about being able to think certain things. He always felt like I don''t come across enough in my work and videos and he wanted to shoot something that was more real.

      id = michael-mayer-kompakt-contact
  author = 
   title = michael-mayer-kompakt-contact
    date = 
keywords = Mayer; Member; Michael; Schmidt
 summary = Back then, their love was house music, admiring DJ Pierre''s work in particular, so when Wolfgang Voigt (aka Mike Ink) opened a Cologne branch of Frankfurt''s Delirium record store, he hired Mayer to take care of the house section. By 2004, when Mayer joined us for a lecture at the Red Bull Music Academy, he had become a co-owner of the shop, which is now called Kompakt and has evolved into a prosperous distribution company defining the sound of Cologne: A blend of minimalist heritage, pop appeal and rave frequencies with a dash of neo trance. In 1998, we decided to remodel the company because the record service called Delirium, who had labels like Jungle Fever, Profan, Auntie A, the parties were called Friends Experiment, and we felt it was better to use one name for all our activities so that''s how we started Kompakt in 1998.

      id = michael-reinboth-lecture
  author = 
   title = michael-reinboth-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Reinboth; record
 summary = Michael Reinboth established Compost Records in 1993 after bumping into fellow music enthusiast Rainer Trüby at his club night Into Somethin'' in Munich, Germany. Nowadays, Michael Reinboth stands for the label Compost Records. Therefore I tried to get a job as a music journalist since I wanted to get promo copies from the record companies. How is a record label to be started and run? You can get names and addresses of distributors easily at events like Midem, where you get a guide listing most distribution companies from all over the world, or you talk to people running a label. Until circa 1998, it was possible to press a quantity of records or white labels, sell these to some shops or distributors. A few years ago, maybe 10 years ago or something, it was popular for people to make their own white labels, like 500 copies and shop them around to a record store.

      id = michael-rother-tokyo-2014
  author = 
   title = michael-rother-tokyo-2014
    date = 
keywords = Bächer; Kraftwerk; Michael; Neu; Rother
 summary = In the early ''70s, Michael Rother quit Kraftwerk, a move that may seem insane if not for his going on to take part in several seminal krautrock bands which influenced the likes of Brian Eno, David Bowie, Stereolab, and Thom Yorke. reasons, of course, it would be interesting to… Actually, maybe, I think most of Yeah, it''s just the excitement of music running backwards, the… Of course, your How much time did you actually have to record this first album? people at the right time, and if I hadn''t run into the Kraftwerk studio, if I had my idea of developing the music, and I could not have recorded things that I that I added enough handmade music, like played my guitar, which of course had working on a play right now or musical, and I was wondering if you had music back then because you were just limited with time or like just

      id = michaela-melian-freiwillige-selbstkontrolle
  author = 
   title = michaela-melian-freiwillige-selbstkontrolle
    date = 
keywords = MELIÁN; MICHAELA; TIM
 summary = That was the first one I made and I liked it so much… That was one idea, to get a showroom of an institution, like a public space, and I wanted to get different people there, not the normal art crowd, so I tried to make this house with music, and I made a special track for that house. I try to keep it very basic when we do it, but you still need seven or eight people to play cellos, guitars and things like that, and so I decided to have a different concept. No, I think it would be better that way, and also, if you listen to the old records we did in this context, it might be interesting – you can hear how time goes by because of the kind of qualities you are able to produce in music, because it has changed so much in the last 20 years.

      id = michel-gaubert-lecture
  author = 
   title = michel-gaubert-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Dwyer; Gaubert; Michel; Nick; Paris
 summary = With more than 60,000 CDs, 20,000 LPs and 360,000 songs across a multitude of hard drives and iPods, the next time you hear a track by IVVVO in a Raf Simons show, Steve Reich in Dior or Hudson Mohawke in a Chanel show, it''s more than likely that the forward-thinking Gaubert is behind that curtain keeping the vibes alive. Yes. I know to put my musical… Of course there''s always going to be my vision or something I like, but when people ask me for music and sometimes they bring ideas to me which I never thought would have been right, but if I think it sounds cool and it''s relevant to what they do, I say, "Sure, why not?" Then, it''s probably the way it''s mixed and the way it''s approved, it''s also seen through my eyes and ears.

      id = mike-grinser
  author = 
   title = mike-grinser
    date = 
keywords = Gonsher; Grinser; Mike; master
 summary = You need to learn a few lessons, I think, to gain some intuition on how you start working on projects because if you get a collection of recordings sometimes it can be that recordings were all made in one studio by one band or one producer and then it lands with you at the mastering studio but it can also be a collection of very different things like a compilation, for example. Say if someone in the last 10 years, their listening has changed from CD to streaming and then to vinyl and then back to streaming, how does the different avenues, particularly when it comes to something that''s relatively new for a lot of people like streaming, affect what artists want of your mastering, to compete in that sort of field?

      id = mike-paradinas-the-sound-of-muziq
  author = 
   title = mike-paradinas-the-sound-of-muziq
    date = 
keywords = DWYER; NICK; mike
 summary = His work – which takes in everything from hazy pop to breakcore – has been released by Virgin, Clear and Rephlex, and now he heads up his own eclectic and highly respected imprint, Planet Mu. In this lecture at the 2006 Red Bull Music Academy in Melbourne, the genre-defying auteur speaks about running a visionary label and his love affair with the UK rave scene. You might know him as Jake Slazenger, Kid Spatula, μ-Ziq – with the funny little symbol – and has released records on labels like Rephlex, Astralwerks, and of course his own Planet Mu label. It was a label I started about eight years ago because I was signed to Virgin, and wanted to release my friends'' music. I had been in a band, playing keyboards in a band, and I wasn''t that excited about doing that, and when I heard electronic music, stuff like house and acid, on the radio, that got my interest back.

      id = mike-will-made-it-lecture
  author = 
   title = mike-will-made-it-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Gucci; Mike; Pemberton; like; man
 summary = it got to be with fours, you know what I''m saying?" I just taught myself how to do that, and then I just started putting my whole drum patterns together, and one of the people that I looked up to, he had this big Tahoe truck sitting on 26s with 415s in the back and shit, so I used to just make beats to go play in his car. Then Gucci, after we did those 20 songs in three days, I brought him some more beats and he told me, "Mike, I''m not going to lie to you, I love these beats, but we have to take the sound to the next level dog, we got to take it to the next level." I never knew what he was talking about until he saw the drop on "Lemonade" and "Rock Star Lifestyle." I started hearing all the singles.

      id = mikeq-lecture
  author = 
   title = mikeq-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Jersey; Martin; New
 summary = In this public talk as part of the 2017 CTM Festival in Berlin, MikeQ looks back on his early days, how he came to discover the world of ballroom and discusses the track-making culture and club nights that keep the scene alive. She went out to clubs and stuff back then and any time she would come pick me up to go to her house she always be playing this track or Marshall Jefferson, a lot of Earth People, I mean Earth by Dance People, excuse me and just stuff like that. That''s not all the way true, because I''ve heard ballroom tracks come from people that probably haven''t been to a ball or don''t know that much about it, may have just heard my music or seen one clip or something like that.

      id = mira-calix-crickets-sing-for-mira
  author = 
   title = mira-calix-crickets-sing-for-mira
    date = 
keywords = CALIX; mira
 summary = Once in London, her love for bands like My Bloody Valentine and the Cocteau Twins propelled her towards what labels like Warp Records were doing, and pretty soon she was at the heart of this new electronic movement. Yeah, I was born in Durban, and I haven''t been back here for a long time and I ended up living in London, living in England like probably quite a lot of people. I really like doing that sort of thing, so I do a lot of gig stuff. And, you know, all the gigging and stuff is great and I really enjoy it, but I think probably most of the people here make music. Which is actually – on one level, it sounds very corny, but when you hear it, it sounds pretty amazing that people can really work these quite simple, small instruments and make such incredible sounds come out of them that you don''t normally get to hear.

      id = mixologists-scratch-massive
  author = 
   title = mixologists-scratch-massive
    date = 
keywords = BENI
 summary = Yeah, that''s kind of, like I said, a sort of team routine, but we would kind of make it a bit more complicated for battle and stuff. Yeah, and what we tend to do when we are practicing for a battle, we practice and if it sounded good to us we were like, "Fuck it, we are going to do it anyway." You know? What we do when we play with four turntables, we like to do it a little bit different to make sure we do something which is entertaining as well as not just playing records. A lot of stuff … we''ll be in the club, and we got sort of ways we might like to link up between the two turntables, and we are just freestyling when we are playing out, and we do something that works very well, we''ll be like, "Yeah, that was dope." We try it at the next show.

      id = mizell-brothers-sky-high-brothers
  author = 
   title = mizell-brothers-sky-high-brothers
    date = 
keywords = Chang; Larry; Marvin; Member; Mizell
 summary = My brother Larry worked on the Apollo program, which landed the first man on the moon, and I got the chance to write, produce and arrange the Jackson 5''s first three records, "I Want You Back," "ABC" and "The Love You Save." All three went on to become No. 1 platinum records. The next project we did for Blue Note after the Black Byrd success was Bobbi Humphrey, a female flute player, who could play and she kinda looked like a little girl, which gave her a certain uniqueness. was A Taste of Honey, and they were kind of one hit wonders, but it was unique to see two ladies playing rhythm instruments like that and they looked good, which helped. A lot of times we wanted to put songs on an album that we just didn''t have room for, so that came into play as well.

      id = mo-gimme-some-mo
  author = 
   title = mo-gimme-some-mo
    date = 
keywords = Berlin; Dwyer
 summary = Though born in Düsseldorf, Mo will forever be associated with Berlin''s electronic scene through club nights such as Electro and Panasonic, as well as the Elektro Music Department label. Well yeah, actually, I thought maybe I''d just play the first record that we released on our label Elektro Music Department. Often I was coming up with an idea, like this track I had the word "silencer" in my head, which I liked because of the meaning and the sound, so we started playing around with it and decided Kotai should just say the word "silencer." Often I was taking care of the bass. I was starting to party in the late ''70s – I was quite young then – and that was the time when the electronic music was happening, like Kraftwerk and La Düsseldorf and Neu!, and also punk started.

      id = mobb-deep
  author = 
   title = mobb-deep
    date = 
keywords = Deep; Jenkins; Mobb; like
 summary = In their conversation with Ego Trip co-founder Sacha Jenkins, Mobb Deep proudly repped Queensbridge and discussed making their classic album, The Infamous, as well as the Dunn language and their lasting influence. Yeah, the early days was like, when we first met, started hanging out, we both the first time I seen somebody sampling and looping like that, and it got me time he used to say "Son" – you know everyone was like, "Yo! I mean what a lot of people don''t understand is, you know, I did an article for Vibe, I think it I mean, it''s a lot of situations out there like, you got six blocks out there. because it was like, all right, it''s Mobb Deep time now. song we recorded for the album, so everybody, we had like 50 dudes in the I mean, there really wasn''t nothing like Mobb Deep at that time.

      id = modeselektor-2010
  author = 
   title = modeselektor-2010
    date = 
keywords = Berlin; Bronsert; Charlie; Schmidt; Szary
 summary = In this lecture at the 2010 Red Bull Music Academy they bring the same anarchic disdain and chaos as they''re known for in their live sets while discussing everything from the fall of the Berlin Wall and German record store Hard Wax to Moderat. a 15 year-old boy calling Hardwax to buy the new Jeff Mills record and then you had James We wanted to play some of our music and records, black discs, you It''s not a nice town, it''s not beautiful, not at all, I mean it got destroyed 90% in the World War. This record, it''s a little homage to this town, because we wanted to show the world that Berlin is not minimal techno and So my question is, I saw that you were choosing tracks on the live PA, I wanted to know when you are performing you have to continuously play songs, right?

      id = modeselektor-2018
  author = 
   title = modeselektor-2018
    date = 
keywords = Bronsert; Gernot; Schmidt; Sebastian; Szary; Torsten
 summary = In some cases, and during nights such as this one, it''s one of the better things you can imagine if you are a little bit interested in music, because every year many young people from all over the world come together to learn from those that have done something memorable. I do not know if that''s something I wished for the audience at this point but yes, that''s actually the most pleasant thing about this situation, that ideally people feel so good about it that it''s just like being at home on the sofa and then they say, "Oh, look here, I found a picture there." And if you wanted to know how good a record was you called and if you were lucky, Pete or James played it to you on the phone.

      id = moodymann-henny-and-kenny
  author = 
   title = moodymann-henny-and-kenny
    date = 
keywords = Benji; Detroit; Moodymann
 summary = In a rare public lecture at the 2010 Red Bull Music Academy, Dixon Jr. discusses growing up in Detroit, his love of vinyl, his notoriously wild live shows, and more. Just like if I am DJing, I am impromptu, or playing my live music, I am not Maybe seven or eight years ago I went back to the rink and I was like, "Shit, I used to do this motherfucker here." I ain''t going to lie, like I And I got a lot of feedback on the fucking record because I don''t fuck with the majors too much like a lot of people. A lot of people ask if I''m married, how come you got all That was a classic motherfucking record, and we thought that shit going to lie, a lot of that shit I do like. I''ve got records and I am going to play these

      id = moor-mother-lecture
  author = 
   title = moor-mother-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Gonsher; Moor; Mother; Philadelphia
 summary = I do want to talk about Philadelphia eventually, but I''m curious to hear what the musical diet was like in your actual household, because I know your father was in a couple of choirs at the church. There was also a quote in that video, where he says, "Armageddon has been in effect." I feel like that connects really strongly to Sun Ra, "It''s after the end of the world, don''t you know that yet?" These are two people amongst very many others whose philosophies and music would come to be grouped under Afrofuturists, Afrofuturism. Well, because it was five people, we had to decide a time to meet, talk about the songs, go over all of this stuff, and I was just like, "In the meantime, I want to make music." So, I just figured to save up to get this iPad, so I can work alone.

      id = morgan-geist-environmental-activist
  author = 
   title = morgan-geist-environmental-activist
    date = 
keywords = Geist; Janson; Morgan; like; music
 summary = You know, now I feel like a lot of people now come at it like it is some obscure disco record, but it was party music, that''s why it got played by Red Alert. I''m always afraid of using the word techno because today it has such a different meaning today, but the techno I heard was not hard, it was creative – soulful is a pretty overused word – but very emotional as opposed to purely functional, where it''s just like, "You will dance." It sort of moved me a bit more and just seeing this guy doing all these records in his apartment... I like it when people have thought it out, and I think, as I''ve grown musically and done it more and more, I also listen to a lot of great compositions, you realize that you could do a lot with very little. Classic dance music, like disco and things when people were working with tape and not computers, taught me a lot about that.

      id = moritz-von-oswald-early-morning-freestyles
  author = 
   title = moritz-von-oswald-early-morning-freestyles
    date = 
keywords = Moritz; Oswald; Schmidt
 summary = In this lecture at the 2008 Red Bull Music Academy, Von Oswald talks about dub, his relationship with the New York reggae sound of Wackies and how his work has spawned a thousand imitators. It''s a big pleasure to be here to answer a lot of questions and talk about my work, our work with Basic Channel, Rhythm & Sound, Wackies rereleases… whatever it concerns, I''ll try to tell you whatever I know. Another thing that came up, which I''ve put on the player; there was a guy from London, who also had a connection with him and he said it would be great if we could do a remix of this track he wanted to release called "Mango Walk," produced by Wackies, which hadn''t been released before. I guess, you had times when you weren''t overwhelmed with stuff, you could just concentrate on a new piece of music rather than be flicking through 10,000 titles on one iPod. When you approach a track, what''s your listening approach?

      id = morton-subotnick-2011
  author = 
   title = morton-subotnick-2011
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Francisco; Morton; Subotnick
 summary = way to get through this thing for two years." The Musicians Union fixed it so that Herbie Alpert, myself and a bunch of musicians who were all the same age and were being drafted and were gonna get into the Sixth Army Band so we wouldn''t have to get killed and the world would have music later in life. Then I started to write my music and I wrote this piece for four-hand piano, which I thought was without question one of the freshest [ideas]. One thing I need to get across, I didn''t want to go to a new technology and make music that could''ve been made with a black and white keyboard on a piano. been talking and doing public lectures about this new thing that was going to happen and that the record player would take the place of the piano as chamber music for the large percentage of people in the world.

      id = move-d-move-any-mountain
  author = 
   title = move-d-move-any-mountain
    date = 
keywords = Janson; music; people
 summary = Karl Berger, I think, is about 73-years old now and he was coming back to Heidelberg once when I was like 25 or something, and my parents, especially my dad, said, "You have to go to see this guy, he is really cool." So, I went and I was really blown away, and that is how I got in touch with him. I asked him if he would be interested in doing something with electronics and he said, "Basically yes, but first you should earn your merits and then we can talk about it." Maybe two years later, he phoned me up from New York and said, "I''m just in Bill Laswell''s studio and I saw your CD lying around there," and I guess this was the moment where he got really interested and this is how we started our collaboration with Karl Berger. Techno wasn''t there yet, only kind of mainstream discotheques in town and they played black music, maybe funk and hip-hop, and stuff like this.

      id = mtume
  author = 
   title = mtume
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Jeff; Mao; Member; Miles; mtume
 summary = Teaming up with Reggie Lucas, the duo were an unstoppable force through the ''80s, penning such hits as Stephanie Mills'' Grammy-winning "Never Knew Love Like This Before" and Roberta Flack''s "The Closer I Get to You." There''s a reason Mtume the band has been sampled countless times: Mtume has consistently lit the way for future generations, on how to do it legit. Then one day, I was down in the basement, in my sanctuary practicing, and he said, "You know, man, you ain''t gon'' be tall." It was like, "Oh, shit!" [laughs] You''re going to have to figure out how you''re going to go to college. As things happen, it got macho, I felt myself out on a limb because nobody from my generation was saying nothing and like I tell people, I don''t mind being out on a limb, I''m just scared of saws, you know what I mean?

      id = mu-buddy-and-soul
  author = 
   title = mu-buddy-and-soul
    date = 
keywords = Freddy; New; Nwachukwu; Zealand
 summary = A seven-piece band called Fat Freddy''s Drop, out of Wellington, New Zealand, starts off playing local gigs and builds a solid fanbase. I guess there''s one thing to be said about being on stage and having that kind of improvisational approach to being on stage and making music, but at some point decisions need to be made, particularly when it comes to making the studio album. Yeah, we''ve had different major labels in New Zealand sniffing around on our live gigs for a long time, but with the music that we''re running we are trying to bring something sufficient to the business side as well and being independent to us is incredibly important. It is looking good, but we''re at a stage in the Fat Freddy''s career where we are trying to sell records outside of New Zealand, so that''s where we are right now, in the middle of that.

      id = mulatu-astatke-ethiopian-knight
  author = 
   title = mulatu-astatke-ethiopian-knight
    date = 
keywords = Astatke; Ethiopia; music
 summary = The first thing we''re going to watch before we start talking is something he brought to illustrate aspects of Ethiopian music and dance culture you may or may not be familiar with. I feel it''s so great because they are contributors, as far as musical instruments are concerned, and later we''ll see how people from the bushes created the diminished scales. There were no European instruments in Ethiopia at that time, so he was greeted by military marching bands and went to different theatres, saw some operas and those more developed art works. Then, after a while, modern music and nightclubs started to flourish in Ethiopia and we used to have small groups teaching themselves somehow and playing more popular modern music, but lots of jazz. Ethiopia was not very well-known in music at that time, it was like 30 or 40 years ago, nobody knew about Ethiopian musicians then.

      id = mykki-blanco-lecture
  author = 
   title = mykki-blanco-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Blanco; Mykki; New; Obst; York
 summary = I have to show people many different sides of Mykki Blanco, because if I keep doing this fashion stuff people are going to think that this is just another topical drag queen that just wants to be pretty all the time, and that''s what this is about. I remember when we were making the idea for this video, I told the director, "I want this to feel like The Simple Life entered The Blair Witch Project." That''s kind of how this moment happened. And so that was my very first music video, and yeah, I was like I wanted people to know that this was not what you... The two moments that shifted my intention from this just being this underground art thing, to oh wait a minute, maybe I could actually have aspirations of being like a Bowie or a Lou Reed… When I really started to think about myself as a musical artist, was "Wavvy" and "Haze.Boogie.Life." "Haze.Boogie.Life" is the first time I really felt like I am a rapper.

      id = newyork-masters-at-work
  author = 
   title = newyork-masters-at-work
    date = 
keywords = Dope; Janson; Kenny; Louie; Vega
 summary = Synonymous with the rise and peak of New York City house music, Kenny Dope and Louie Vega met through their mutual friend Todd Terry, resulting in a fruitful production partnership full of timeless hits. But yeah, after doing all those parties and carrying speakers and all that kind of stuff, it came to a point where I didn''t want to do that any more and I wanted to start doing records, and start getting into that and into beats. Todd Terry took those records and sampled them, like Marshall Jefferson, like a lot of stuff on D.J. International and all through, and like Louie said, we had certain labels that we worked for a lot. and Nervous Records, who are the big New York house labels that, if you look them up, you''ll hear a lot of history on this up a lot of new records that sound like I''m playing CDs, because people are

      id = nicky-siano
  author = 
   title = nicky-siano
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Gallery; Mao; Nicky; Siano
 summary = I was down there for that and then I met this chick in high school, Robin, and I said, "You got to come down to the Village" and she said, "Well, we''re having a good time, but isn''t there some place to do something, like dance?" We started asking around and the only place we could go, because we were 14 at the time – actually, I started going down when I was 13 – we were 14 and the only place we could go was this place called the Firehouse, which was run by the Legal Defense League, and it was a firehouse on Wooster Street. Anyway, I go to my brother''s party and these people are all, like, getting drunk or whatever, smoking weed back then, and the music is, and Robin''s going "Put on some of your records, put on some of your records!" So I start putting on the records.

      id = nicolas-godin-lecture
  author = 
   title = nicolas-godin-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Godin; music
 summary = A former architecture student at École Nationale Supérieure d''Architecture de Versailles, Godin has recorded plenty of albums as part of seminal French duo Air, in addition to collaborating with Charlotte Gainsbourg and contributing music to the movies Lost in Translation and The Virgin Suicides. Yes, we used a computer voice and we always were happy to use gadgets and classical instruments in the same time because there was traditional records and there was electronic music but we wanted to mix them all together, so we went in LA and we''d say, "Okay, this cheap electronic voice on the computer, we''re going to mix it with a big choir," and we went in Capital Studios in LA. I think I learned that and Lost in Translation is the first movie I said to myself, "Okay, now I know how to do a soundtrack." This is the first track and it has been requested, they sent us this scene because Brian Reitzell was supervising the music for the whole movie, and we decided not to work together because we don''t like to do twice the same thing.

      id = nicolay-killing-em-softy
  author = 
   title = nicolay-killing-em-softy
    date = 
keywords = Bortot; Davide; Nicolay
 summary = Screw it, I''m posting my stuff online." That''s what I did and people really really took to it instantly, and Phonte was one of the cats who was like, "Yo, this is really cool." I put two or three up and he emailed me and said, "I don''t know what you''re doing with these tracks, but I''d love to do something with it." I wasn''t planning anything to begin with, so I said, "Go ahead and give it a go." "Nic''s Groove" and "Light it Up" from the Connected record were the first two tracks he did. When Connected came out people were saying that they really loved its European ambient type [of thing] and I was like, "What are you talking about?" But I guess, it did find its way into the material. So there''s a hip-hop album and there''s a boy and a girl hugging and kissing, so you know people are going to say, "What?" We knew we were taking a risk, we just wanted to have something different, something positive.

      id = nile-rodgers-turn-the-other-chic
  author = 
   title = nile-rodgers-turn-the-other-chic
    date = 
keywords = Bernard; Dance; Diana; Nile; Rodgers; like; record
 summary = His band defined the disco era like no other, but when the "disco sucks" backlash hit, he sidestepped into production to make classic albums with Diana Ross, Sister Sledge, David Bowie, Duran Duran and Madonna. came back to New York I just became completely inundated with culture, with music, with learning, and I started playing in the school orchestras. people get pissed off in Chic – at least me and Bernard – is (adopting angry voice) "Motherfucker, rah, rah, rah." Then you call him: "Hey man, you feel like going world who plays like that." And he said, "Yeah, it''s just this thing I did for If you''re a guitar player and you learn a song, that''s what you play the whole record, but I only do that in the was our song because I''m the producer, I know what my records sound like, I don''t like the record that much if I''m not playing on it.

      id = no-id-lecture-jay-z-kanye-west-chicago
  author = 
   title = no-id-lecture-jay-z-kanye-west-chicago
    date = 
keywords = Andrew; Barber; I.D.; like; man
 summary = He then turned his ears to hip-hop, producing the bulk of Common''s early output, including the classic "I Used to Love H.E.R." The two childhood friends parted ways after three albums, leaving No I.D. to expand his horizons by managing a young Kanye West and working with Jermaine Dupri, Jay-Z and more. But I had the wherewithal, I remember calling my mother like a year and a half in going, "I don''t want to waste your money, I need to come home." And now, serious now. So now I saw that Common was still going with the music and I was like, "Hmm." And now I could kind of see the seeds of a scene and different things. I think what happened with that album, going back to why you say you can''t hear it, is I remember going into the company one day and talking to the higher-ups and they''re like, "Yeah, you know man Diddy is killing it right now, man.

      id = noel-watson
  author = 
   title = noel-watson
    date = 
keywords = Burns; London; New; Watson; York
 summary = Noel Watson was one of the first DJs to play house music in the UK, spinning at clubs across London in the ''80s and working in Soho''s fabled Black Market record store. He would come down to our parties at Battle Bridge Road, and I had meetings with Malcolm where he would want me and my brother to take over as A&R people for different labels and things like that, because we were then being asked to remix records and mix compilations. I think a lot of the kids who were coming back from New York or Ibiza had discovered ecstasy and also the house music culture and the Balearic culture that was happening then in Ibiza played a major impact in that. That was fun because putting Bambaataa in the Star Bar in the club on a Thursday night in London and he was just part of this massive New York hip-hop culture was odd at the time.

      id = norman-jay-public-mbe-no-1
  author = 
   title = norman-jay-public-mbe-no-1
    date = 
keywords = America; Jay; Norman; Warren; music; record
 summary = He also looks back on his days spearheading the former pirate radio station Kiss FM, working as an A&R man with Gilles Peterson at Talkin'' Loud records and how he pioneered the rare groove scene. The only way you had access to those artists was via records, which you couldn''t even read about – you had to go to the record shop physically, and listen, and read dedicated fanzines that were around at the time, which gave you information and an insight into what music was coming out. I got my first transistor when I was 11 and I just used to listen with one single earpiece to any station that played any black music or certain rock records, which formed the soundtrack to my life. People always asked me, even to this day, the number one question from journalists is always: "How many records have you got?" I don''t care and I don''t know, that''s not relevant to me.

      id = nottz-sp-footprints
  author = 
   title = nottz-sp-footprints
    date = 
keywords = Nottz
 summary = The Norfolk, Virginia native got his start in the late ''90s rap underground with beats for the Lyricist Lounge compilation and Busta Rhyme''s Extinction Level Event album. He said, "I want you do some stuff for my shit." OK, gave him a cassette – we were working with cassettes then – and the first three beats on that cassette ended up being the first three joints on his album. A dude was saying to me, "I heard a track you did." I''m playing it like I don''t know what he''s talking about. A lot of times we''ll send it off and they''ll either send it back before, to check and see if the mix is right, but the majority of these people, they don''t even want to send that shit anyway because they''re afraid it''ll get leaked. I like working with indie artists anyway, because they''re up-and-coming, you never know what they''re going to do.

      id = objekt
  author = 
   title = objekt
    date = 
keywords = Martin; like; objekt; sound
 summary = Actually, this kills two birds with one stone because it has quite a lot of foley recordings and sample pack stuff, and texture, but it also has a completely deranged time grid, so it ties back into the Brian Eno quote from before, because basically, what I did was open the automation line for the master tempo in Ableton and I just went like this [makes scribbling motion with hand] all over it, so you can''t really count any kind of beat, but it did definitely steer me in quite an interesting and more free direction, where instead of trying to get the listener locked into a rhythmic groove, I was trying to steer the track in just a more generally sonically satisfying direction, with a sense of push and pull rather than constant pushing.

      id = oh-no-new-jackson-swing
  author = 
   title = oh-no-new-jackson-swing
    date = 
keywords = MONK; beat
 summary = His real name is Michael Jackson, but he''s no relation to the moonwalking King of Pop. Still, Oh No has carved out an enviable beat-making career and does have a sibling who''s big in the industry: his brother, Stones Throw mainstay Madlib. And whilst he had his music going on, I''d be on the games, and playing the crazy Nintendo and everything, all the crazy underground games, swap-meet games, all that stuff. And when I make beats, I look at it like when I''m playing a game. And I would add that with the old drum machines and stuff, then flip it into the MPC, and it''s like, a grown man''s tool. I got all kinds of beats with video games and stuff. So, yeah man, what other sorts of things do you like to get into when it comes to making a beat?

      id = oneohtrix-point-never-replication
  author = 
   title = oneohtrix-point-never-replication
    date = 
keywords = BURNS; ONEOHTRIX; POINT; TODD
 summary = The son of Russian immigrants and professional musicians, Lopatin''s work is loosely connected to the noise circuit, but also draws influences from library records, jazz-fusion and his love-hate relationship with new age music. The cover band in St. Petersburg at that time was really fancy stuff ''cause nobody could get their hands on American or British music. A lot of people would listen to that and be like, "OK. Yeah, on the first three records [which] were all compiled on this double-disc thing that [No Fun] put out called Rifts. and that gave me a lot of time to think about what I''d done and I was like, "Oh, I think Peter is a lot like Carlos in that way. remix of many different artists, so I''m like, "Maybe I shouldn''t do these anymore." My recording approach is pretty raw, or had been, so it''s difficult to massage So he''s like, "Yeah, I want to make your record and

      id = orchestra-di-santa-cecilia-strings-of-life
  author = 
   title = orchestra-di-santa-cecilia-strings-of-life
    date = 
keywords = Francesco; Mazzarese; Storino
 summary = Some 19th-century composers actually added a lot of low instruments in their works, and they needed a lot of instruments like double basses and tubas, maybe. For example, Shoenberg or Zemlinsky use two tuba, it''s a lot of contrabass, to make a situation of afraid, of tension. When a player [plays three ascending notes on tuba] These are the second, the third and the fourth harmonic. If we have a principal note, maybe this one [plays cello] – this is a theory coming from Pythagoras, okay, so it''s very important – if you cut the string in two equal parts, this sound will be an octave upper. Now I just want to play something because I want to show what the cello is in, for example, romantic music. You risk, when you play an instrument like this, to rush, or to slow down the music. It means that from [plays] Only change these notes, hear the music.

      id = otomo-yoshihide
  author = 
   title = otomo-yoshihide
    date = 
keywords = Kunisaki; Otomo; Susumu; Yoshihide
 summary = I''m the executive editor of Sound and Recording Magazine, which is a monthly mag for people who create music. but over the past decade or so, I''ve been thinking that there should be places where ordinary people can enjoy music in other ways. But the people living in Fukushima need humor to keep going, so we chose "Big Furoshiki" as the title for the event, which was a word that a Japanese person would notice as a bit of a joke. You play "noise music," and for that you create noises with your guitar as well as with a turntable like this one. Meaning not only musicians but also technicians, artists, and many others create the work, like performers playing in an orchestra. I''ve played various kinds of music so I like those too. I think music cannot only be defined by what the musician plays.

      id = owusu-and-hannibal-scandinavian-interior-design
  author = 
   title = owusu-and-hannibal-scandinavian-interior-design
    date = 
keywords = Hannibal; Owusu; Philip; Schmidt
 summary = Philip Owusu and Robin Hannibal are a Danish production and songwriting duo whose 2006 debut album, Living With…, turned a lot of heads and pricked a lot of ears. The thing we liked about starting the track in Danish was we knew it would be It was an interesting question, also, you asked about the process from I mean doing something that''s on your laptop or computer or whatever the transition into people actually buying it, and like it being our product in some ways. Yes, I think it''s a good idea for lyrics to be interpreted in different ways. The way I see it, I think, for us, the thing that kind of worked for us was to kind of, like, record as many ideas early on as possible.

      id = pan-daijing-lecture
  author = 
   title = pan-daijing-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Daijing; Host; Pan; work
 summary = But really, to feel like, ''OK, music can be a choice or sound can be a form of expression,'' was really when I stepped out of my teenage time, and going abroad for the first time in my life, and confronting a lot of things I was not aware before about myself; about the world. So there''s a lot of things and I guess I spent a whole year watching a lot of those films, and just thinking about stories and looking into my past, reading books that I feel like would help me understand a lot of things. These sort of things, I feel like it''s a really long time to observe through other people''s work, and get inspired and think [about] what you have to say.

      id = papa-wemba-lecture
  author = 
   title = papa-wemba-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Dwyer; Papa; Wemba; congolese
 summary = Our next guest just so happens to be one of the biggest stars of Congolese music: he got a start in 1969 with a group called Zaiko Langa Langa, which went on to become one of the greatest bands Congo ever knew. During this time, the modern music of Congo had a man named Wendo Kolosoy, aka Papa Wendo, and I think we''re going to listen to a track right now that was one of the biggest hits of the ''50s. Zaiko Langa Langa there, with a track called "Ndonge." Something else that you mentioned, Papa Wemba, and [that] we saw it in the video: you know this moment when the Seben hits, and then all of a sudden we see some of the most incredible dance moves we''ve ever seen?

      id = patrice-no-lion-sleeps-tonight
  author = 
   title = patrice-no-lion-sleeps-tonight
    date = 
keywords = Schmidt; patrice
 summary = Because when you have someone like, let''s say, an easy example, Frank Sinatra, it''s probably not necessarily his voice, but knowing exactly when to pause, where to put the cadenzas and all that kind of stuff. Really and truly you just have to try and be sensitive because I think good songs, they write themselves, you just follow the idea and let it talk to you. It''s one way, yes, but you also can write great songs when you are in difficult situations or when you are in a room where there are just grey walls, like in a prison. I think you should put yourself in uncomfortable situations because that''s when you will really start working and you have to come up with something, you are really under pressure. Yes, well, I mean, you got a lot of things here but you don''t have a mic stand.

      id = patrick-adams
  author = 
   title = patrick-adams
    date = 
keywords = Adams; Chairman; Mao; Patrick
 summary = From discovering a teenage Leroy Burgess, to writing, producing and arranging disco and ''80s R&B classics like Inner Life''s "I''m Caught Up (In A One Night Love Affair)" and Fonda Rae''s "Touch Me (All Night Long)," Mr. Patrick Adams has been an integral part of New York dance music history for over 30 years. had guys coming to me, right around the end of the disco era when everything crashed, a person said to me, "I will give you $250,000 to produce a studio album for me." He didn''t even care what the content was, it was just that that was the perception of my position at that moment. Well, let''s talk a little bit about disco, because you worked quite a bit through these years on a number of really great records, but you also have said...

      id = patrick-pulsinger-when-in-doubt-call-the-mr-engineer
  author = 
   title = patrick-pulsinger-when-in-doubt-call-the-mr-engineer
    date = 
keywords = LFO; Pulsinger
 summary = Basically, we know what the oscillator does, we kind of know what the filter does, there is an envelope that shapes our sound as we play it, and we have different kinds of modulation, which is, for example, different kinds of LFOs. We also have other modulations, like a ring modulator. It''s not that much like a mixer where you can mix things together, it''s more like a modulation, so the frequency of the oscillator will affect the way the audio signal sounds. If I''m using an LFO to mess with the time of the sequencer, because now it''s running on MIDI notes, I can also go ahead and let it just transfer the trigger that I''m sending out to the synthesizer, I can mess around with the timing and I can again use modulation for the timing itself – not just for modulating the oscillator or the filters, but for the timing itself it needs a little set-up.

      id = paul-de-barros-seattle-super-sonics
  author = 
   title = paul-de-barros-seattle-super-sonics
    date = 
keywords = Barros; Paul; Schmidt; Seattle
 summary = It''s a very contrary exceptionalist place and I think John is very right about that, that the grunge rock that happened here went hand-in-hand with a bunch of experimental jazz musicians as well; Tim Young, a guitar player who''s still here. In fact, in the 1920s Joe Darensbourg, who was a clarinet player who came up here from New Orleans, settled here because he said, "There''s no city in the United States, other than New Orleans, that has so many night clubs after hours and so much illegal goings on, so it''s great for a musician." When Dick came to town, local people knew who he was, so he had the pleasure of having an advertisement in the newspaper that said, "Hometown boy, Dick Wilson, comes home and plays with Andy Kirk," and so all of his friends went out to see him at the Eagles Auditorium.

      id = paul-riser-funk-brothers-gonna-work-it-out
  author = 
   title = paul-riser-funk-brothers-gonna-work-it-out
    date = 
keywords = CHAIRMAN; JEFF; PAUL; RISER
 summary = As in-house arranger at Motown, his work adorns classics from "My Girl" to "Rocket Love" – not bad for someone who started off hating R&B. In this lecture at the 2011 Red Bull Music Academy, he relives the glory days of low pay at Motown, explains why string players are the most disciplined and refuses to show any love for electronic music. But I like to start these things off with a little music, just to To be a separate arranger for a song, to do rhythm a lot of times, if you were Temptations heard it without the strings, they said, "We don''t like this song." But today, with what I know musically, I could find spots on a lot of songs where I''d like to put strings. Norman Whitfield, great producer at Motown, great arranger, ''cause he heard things, and he placed them a lot of the time, especially with his rhythm

      id = pauline-oliveros-lecture
  author = 
   title = pauline-oliveros-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Bächer; Member; Oliveros; Pauline
 summary = Sitting on the couch at the 2016 Red Bull Music Academy, Oliveros recalled how she created her own instruments and how listening can help change how you hear. A guy that you might have heard of called John Cage is often quoted saying that he knows now what harmony is, because of Deep Listening and Pauline Oliveros, and that it''s about the pleasure of making music. Did that lead to pop musicians or rock musicians at that time coming to San Francisco Tape Music Center and wanting to collaborate with you? After the performance, there were not one but there were three people came up to me and said, "How did you get the fire engines to go by on time?" The only answer I have is that I was listening and I heard them, so they became part of the piece.

      id = peaches
  author = 
   title = peaches
    date = 
keywords = Berlin; Dwyer; Nick; Peaches; peach
 summary = With an early music career in folk, she later joined forces with Chilly Gonzales, relocated from Toronto to Berlin, played one spontaneous over-the-top gig and got a record deal with independent label Kitty-Yo. The teaches of Peaches continue to influence pop culture, as her cult following has grown. So I just spun it around a bit and came up with new sort of clichés, saying things like, "Diddle my skittle," or, "Sucking on my titties." I had this idea that everybody, guys and girls, straight, gay, would want to sing, "Sucking my titties!" I think I thought that that would have been a big breakthrough, in my head.

      id = pearson-sound-everyday-im-hesslin
  author = 
   title = pearson-sound-everyday-im-hesslin
    date = 
keywords = DMZ; FWD; Sound; like
 summary = I think we should get an idea of the kind of music you make at the moment, and play something current. I remember I got asked to play in whatever city, and I was like, "Oh, I can''t, it''s DMZ." You''d make excuses – it sounds crazy now that people sound like I played 100% vinyl all the time, but I did cut quite a bit, and it their record, and I think people like that in a way. a lot of genres and I think a couple of years ago, people who would come to Say, if before I played an ambient tune, I was like, "This is a really sad piece of music, you should feel sad," I think Do you think that in a couple of years people will ask you to play bass music? The way I see my own music, is a tune like "Work Them,"

      id = peder-mannerfelt
  author = 
   title = peder-mannerfelt
    date = 
keywords = Dernulf; Mannerfelt
 summary = Swedish producer Peder Mannerfelt embraces the versatility of modern production and electronic music through both his collaborations and solo work. For the past 15-20 years you''ve had [aliases like] the Subliminal Kid, Roll the Dice and a lot of collaborations. Working with music software is like learning a new instrument. It''s interesting that you said "five years ago" since you''ve been releasing records for a long time and produced other artists. We wanted different things musically. But if we use dance music as an example, before you know your way around a program you just add a kick, hi-hat and a synth line, and that''s enough to make you super excited. For a long time I worked mostly with synthesizers and hardware but that restricts you to a studio that has all the things that you need in order to make a song.

      id = pedro-busy-p-winter-somewhere-over-the-rainbow
  author = 
   title = pedro-busy-p-winter-somewhere-over-the-rainbow
    date = 
keywords = Banger; Daft; Janson; Punk; Winter
 summary = Impresario and musician alike, this Parisian used to manage what is arguably the most influential dance music act of the ''90s, Daft Punk, before he started his own label Ed Banger Records in 2003. Since then, he''s shown the world that it''s still possible to successfully deal with music, pushing the careers of the likes of Justice, Uffie, DJ Mehdi or Mr. Oizo, while anticipating and shaping a colorful trend called nu-rave with the label''s instantly recognizable artwork. A mix of all things hip-hop, pop, electro, disco and rock, Ed Banger put back relentless fun and a barrel of laughs into the global club music scene. imagine, spending time with Daft Punk is like living with a giant magnet, I keep receiving music or artists saying, "Oh, I want you to be my manager." But

      id = peter-brotzmann
  author = 
   title = peter-brotzmann
    date = 
keywords = Bennink; Brötzmann; Bächer; Peter
 summary = Primarily a saxophonist and clarinetist, Brötzmann has worked with experimental greats such as Dutch drummer Han Bennink, British fellow saxophone powerhouse Evan Parker and Japanese sound artist Keiji Haino, exploring an avant-garde, largely improvisational style of free jazz with his signature rough timbre. Yeah, and the funny thing is, Heintje was, of course, a Dutch guy, and you know, going to Holland in these early years right after the war, it was, for a German, not so easy. I mean, it''s a nice feeling if you''re in you studio and come to a point where you can say "OK, this, let''s say, painting, is finished and it looks all right," or you throw it in the oven or whatever, but to work on a thing with a group of people and create something together, it''s another feeling and it''s a much more intense feeling in a way.

      id = peter-hook-new-world-order
  author = 
   title = peter-hook-new-world-order
    date = 
keywords = HOOK; PETER; TOBY; audience; laing
 summary = I remember writing "Love Will Tear Us Apart" in an afternoon with Ian, and he went away and did the lyrics, and then we came back, and we didn''t even have the tape machine in those days, so for the record companies to hear it, they had to come hear us perform it, which was quite interesting because it''s quite interesting when you think that an LP like Unknown Pleasures, because we were poor, it only existed in our heads. I mean, regardless of how incredibly out of it a lot of people must have been at the time, the club we were talking about before seems to be a bit of a landmark for DJs exposing crowds to music, which they may not otherwise have heard, putting it together in a way that they may not have experienced before, and it''s led to various different subcultures around the world.

      id = philip-glass-lecture
  author = 
   title = philip-glass-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Glass; music
 summary = Throughout the ''70s Glass refined his work, resulting in career-defining compositions like Music In Twelve Parts and Einstein On The Beach. Glass''s stunning soundtrack work for films like The Thin Blue Line and The Hours, and a symphony based on David Bowie''s album Heroes, has only elevated his standing as one of America''s most popular living composers. Well, Bob liked to call it opera, ''cause he always said, "Well, ''opera,'' for the Italians, means ''a work.''" He didn''t really mean an opera in the same [sense], however, we would get into these conversations, with groups like this, and this is ''76, and we''d do this piece and we''d have a meeting the next day with whoever wanted to talk, which was usually a lot of people, and they

      id = philippe-zdar-vive-la-resistance
  author = 
   title = philippe-zdar-vive-la-resistance
    date = 
keywords = Schmidt; Zdar
 summary = Ummm, in the big recording studios, there''s a sound engineer, producer, artist, an assistant and then a tea boy – the tea boy is the guy who makes the tea, [laughter] coffee and throw away the ashtrays. My career started like this – it''s the same with everybody, you do one thing one way, and the people in the record company, they don''t see too far, you know? He doesn''t like the music." So I think to be honest and strict is very important, because I see a lot of people myself who are successful for six months, so everybody works with you and you''re like, "I''m gonna make money, I''m gonna work with everybody." And then after six months it''s gone, there''s somebody else coming up, a young kid at 25 – like our friend yesterday.

      id = phonte-bro-where-art-though
  author = 
   title = phonte-bro-where-art-though
    date = 
keywords = Coleman; Mao; Phonte; like; shit
 summary = Hailing from Durham, North Carolina Little Brother heralded a new wave of early 2000s rap acts with a clear debt to the likes of A Tribe Called Quest, Public Enemy and De La Soul whom they saw as big brothers to their own musical aspirations. In this lecture at the 2006 Red Bull Music Academy, Phonte talks about how the group stood out like a sore thumb in their local scene, breaking through on the Internet with famous fans such as The Roots and Pete Rock and the dangers of making it and believing your own hype. I heard you got the new fall line in and I wanted to help you out with that." It was a wake-up call, going from our first record, which was The Listening, which got tons of critical acclaim and buzz, then moving to a major label for our second album, The Minstrel Show, which got the same critical acclaim and buzz, but… we believed the hype.

      id = planningtorock
  author = 
   title = planningtorock
    date = 
keywords = Member; Planningtorock; Ravens; music
 summary = I mean, for this record, because also I did for All Love''s Legal and I also do it live as well, it''s interesting because when I first started doing it, people were like, "That''s not your real voice," but for me it is. And then when it came to my album, I''m like, "I want to write a whole new song just with that lyric." That''s actually how it happened. I think when I came to write All Love''s Legal, those songs, there was things I wanted to say and share, and I was aware that writing a song like "Misxgyny Drxp Dead" could be a bit intense for somebody. I''m like, "OK." I think producing music and working with sound, and spending so much time with sound and finding your own sound.

      id = plastician-plasticman-grime-virtuoso
  author = 
   title = plastician-plasticman-grime-virtuoso
    date = 
keywords = Dwyer; Nick; like
 summary = At the moment, people are sort of labeling it as a new genre called grime, which sort of evolved from the old UK garage scene when it started getting a little bit dark. I''m not calling my music that, we''re going to call it this instead." It just got so confusing for everyone that someone had to come along and go, "Let''s just call it grime, and that''ll do," sort of thing. I''ve got some old garage tracks as well just so you can see the difference, how it''s kind of changed over the years or like this whole industry standard. I think it was when the first couple of grime tunes came around all the kids loved it and all of the old garage people were like, "We don''t, we don''t like this." And a lot of the people involved with garage at the time were like, "I''m nothing to do with this grime, I don''t like this stuff, I''ve had enough of garage now if that''s the way it''s going..." So then half of them people went on to doing funky house and then you''ve got the other half of people who were like...

      id = prince-paul-prince-of-thieves
  author = 
   title = prince-paul-prince-of-thieves
    date = 
keywords = Paul; TORSTEN
 summary = Fellow innovator Steinski called this man "the closest thing hip-hop has to a genius." By the age of ten, Prince Paul''s pals were comparing him to Grandmaster Flash. He had to convince them otherwise, and has been challenging people''s preconceptions about hip hop ever since: from his scratches in Stetsasonic to his groundbreaking production with De La Soul and Handsome Boy Modelling School. Where now – not to shoot down what''s going on now, I don''t want to seem like the bitter old school guy – but I think the cool thing back in the days was that everything you had to go and search it. I think that made a lot of things crafty as far as like the equipment. You know what is amazing is a lot of us, we played together with no ideas of ever making records together. A lot of times you played to crowds that didn''t know your records.

      id = prins-thomas-prins-among-thieves
  author = 
   title = prins-thomas-prins-among-thieves
    date = 
keywords = Janson; Thomas
 summary = But the old lady thinks of waltz and stuff like that if you talk of dance music. still into that kind of music and playing around in my bedroom with belt-driven turntables and learning to mix the old school way, where you have to Norway doing dance music and releasing it, peers like Todd Terje and Rune Lindbæk and Hans Peter Lindstrøm, one could think that there''s this big thing happening? For me, it''s probably harder to say what my music is inspired by or play something that sounds a little bit like it, it''s more like it''s a mixture of all types of things. playing the same kind of records all night or one specific genre of music. It''s like an old disco track by a band called Montreal Sound, it''s called "Music Part 2." I think I might have done some additional editing on it, so let''s see. I think the idea of doing it while you''re playing, actually making something live, I like that.

      id = pusha-t
  author = 
   title = pusha-t
    date = 
keywords = Clipse; Mistry; Pusha
 summary = In his public lecture at RBMA Berlin 2018, Pusha T discussed working with Kanye West, rap''s competitive spirit, making Daytona, heading up G.O.O.D. Music and the early days of the Clipse in Virginia Beach. For my brother, I feel like – and I''m not trying to speak for him – but I think he saw things a little differently. Ironically, I think I was like in Sweden and [Kanye West] called, he was like, "Hey, man, want to come to Hawaii and work on this album with me?" I was like, "Sure." And that''s how I got like all my [air miles]. [laughs] He was like, "Hey man, I actually think I can do this better." And I was like, "Alright." You know, I''m ready to come out though. You know, as much as I wanted to have ten, I had to think about it and I was like, "Yo, This man is really doing 35 beats, which is a lot.

      id = q-tip
  author = 
   title = q-tip
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Mao; Member; like; tip
 summary = It''s literally so monotonous for you to get a good three or four minutes of music out of this piece right here, because you have to keep going back probably, say, like a hundred times, if you want like a bar or something, and you have to play it, rewind it, go back. And that little part right there, I don''t know if you guys heard it but the guy''s like, "Hot, Hot, Hot, Hot, Hot" [imitates music], and it was the drum break down, so DJs would cut that part back and forth. just started thinking about space like that, you know what I mean? Like, what I was trying to play too with was just dynamics, which is still a thing with me with music. It would call for whatever the music was like it''s all working together, you know what I mean?

      id = qua-burbling-acoustronica
  author = 
   title = qua-burbling-acoustronica
    date = 
keywords = DWYER; NICK; qua
 summary = Have a warm welcome for a multi-talented man – a composer, producer, musician and sound designer, been working on a multitude of projects in Melbourne over recent years, playing in many different bands, Mr. Cornel Wilczek. So say, for example, you''re working on a scene with sync sounds that are dialogue, movement, footsteps and atmospheres and trying to get a balance that not only describes what''s happening but tells a lot more of the story, that can somehow add tension to a scene that needs to be tense, can offer a very abstract way of giving a bit of a history about a person and things like that. And also just I think a lot of people happened to like the sound of my album as well and I ended up doing production for a few bands, I''ve been working quite closely with a Japanese band called Meow.

      id = questlove-new-york-2013
  author = 
   title = questlove-new-york-2013
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; D''Angelo; Dilla; Mao; Member; like; root
 summary = As the band gained global notoriety, Questlove became involved in the Soulquarians project, a production team featuring fellow Philly musician James Poyser, D''Angelo, members of A Tribe Called Quest and the late Jay Dee. Having helped shape the sound of live hip-hop and neo-soul, Questlove continued to feed his creative hunger with collaborations, writing and DJing. For those of you who don''t know, in the book Outliers, by Malcolm Gladwell, his theory is that all the people that we admire in the world, we tend to think, like, "Oh well, this person has by the time that D''Angelo and I started the Voodoo record, which was like mid-''96, that was the hardest thing ever, because he wanted me to drag the beat, but then he''d drag the beat behind me. So, in our case, yeah, at the time, I just felt like, "Wow, let''s just do the record." I don''t know the psychological thought process that leads one to say, "OK, let''s take everything that we worked for and just throw it out the window.

      id = rakim-lecture
  author = 
   title = rakim-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Eric; Mao; Rakim
 summary = You know, sometimes I like to start these things by playing a little music That''s a good question, man, ''cause from Kool Moe Dee, you got the ferocious type of style, but at the same time, he was a conscious cat, you know? Mel, man… Melle Mel was like the lion of the game, man, you know what I mean? But yeah, back then, man, like, I could sit down and write rhymes, and think of going to the it came time for me to start rapping, you know, the studio was just like this. But just getting into it, man, learning, you know how to make beats, how to make a record, how to create in the studio, it started to come a little more natural to me. So it let''s you know that people appreciate what you do and you mean a little more than just music to ''em.

      id = randy-muller-fixing-inner-frequencies
  author = 
   title = randy-muller-fixing-inner-frequencies
    date = 
keywords = Muller; Randy; Skyy; guy; music
 summary = This is a guy who''s done so many songs, he was just telling me, "I had to print out a discography online because he doesn''t remember all the songs I''ve done." The stuff you were just listening to when you came in were his compositions, numerous other classics of the disco era, the so-called classic club scene of New York in the late ''70s, early ''80s. He was kind of a homeless guy, but he lived across the street in this little village and every Christmas he played "Silent Night" – I guess that''s where I got the "Silent Night" from – and it was so cool, because I was waiting up to see Santa for myself, and all of a sudden, I hear this beautiful music that sounds so great.

      id = rashad-becker-tokyo-2014
  author = 
   title = rashad-becker-tokyo-2014
    date = 
keywords = BURNS; Becker; TODD
 summary = Around Berlin, Rashad Becker''s name is synonymous with sonic brilliance — a mastering engineer at Basic Channel''s Dubplates & Mastering studio, he put the finishing touches on over 1,200 of your favorite techno, dub, and house records. The other thing is basically the equivalent to post-production in movies, that is like retouching the sound in the final stage. but as the music culture changes, though, I think actually there has always like electro-acoustic ''70s bit of extreme signals on vinyl, I could work much I have to tame the signal in a certain way that they will not just sound like In addition to mastering, you also wanted to talk a little bit about recording think it''s mostly that if you want to do mastering, you work through all the I never want to listen to music beforehand the mastering process, because I

      id = ready-d-and-shaheen-cant-stop-the-prophets
  author = 
   title = ready-d-and-shaheen-cant-stop-the-prophets
    date = 
keywords = Cape; african; time
 summary = On returning to Cape Town, Deon acquired his first pair of Lenco turntables, and this hip-hop lover progressed to become a national champion and international DMC battle competitor – making music that helped to express the struggles and passions of his community along the way. And they told us, "Look, you guys got to come to this club, come and see because this is like some next shit." And we didn''t know what punk rock was all about. And with him being involved with hip-hop, I think he was probably one of a very, very few white kids who actually had the guts to go out into the townships at that point in time. We were amongst a few fortunate kids who had somebody like this in our crew who travelled abroad because his parents were originally from the UK and he used to send us a lot of the music and the tapes at that point in time.

      id = recloose-dust-in-our-eyes
  author = 
   title = recloose-dust-in-our-eyes
    date = 
keywords = Laing; music; recloose
 summary = "Dude, maybe you want to put some of this over here, and this." I was like, "What''s that do?" There''s very basic things that if you haven''t studied music, you don''t have someone to show you, you don''t really have any notion. I think I always wanted to take a relatively experimental approach to what I was doing and trying different things, but playing with cats like that encouraged that even more. I think it was quite time-consuming, recording lots of takes, and lots of people, and different situations, and going back through and editing them. In addition to which, what I learned on the last album, every label''s different, but I don''t want to feel like I''m shit talking about Peacefrog, but some labels need people to stay on their ass and see the project through.

      id = reinhold-heil
  author = 
   title = reinhold-heil
    date = 
keywords = Berlin; Germany; Heil; Nina; Reinhold; Schmidt; Torsten
 summary = So, I would very much like you to welcome a person who''s excelled in two, if not three, different areas that you can do, maybe even four, depending on how you want to define it, but most of all has worked a lot in this very town and had his hands in I''d say at least five of the best ten German pop songs ever, outside of his soundtrack and scoring work. Within that vibe you played in a bunch of like proggy bands and a lot of your comrades, there was a big scene of things that were a little different to what was going on in the pop music kind of thing. That was kind of one of the instigators of this whole thing and I dared saying in public, "I really think these bands should be left alone until they''re done." And I got a huge backlash from the musicians who were very happy to be signing a record deal just because they''re from Berlin.

      id = rekid-the-discovery-of-slowness
  author = 
   title = rekid-the-discovery-of-slowness
    date = 
keywords = Edwards; Janson; Matt
 summary = When we were first going out, we were lucky to experience a lot of those people like Pal Joey, who were making house records that were around 115 to 118 BPM, which is one of the reasons, for me, the whole Rekid thing started, which was to make records that were much, much slower. I really think it shows that there''s a lot more to hip-hop than just sampling old funk records, and that you can make great electronic music. Yeah, I was going to play you guys this, I''ve done this remix , I did two mixes as part of the job, so I did like a record thing and a Radio Slave thing. In the late ''90s a lot of record labels lost their way because they always thought, if I get this guy to remix it he''s going to make the song better, when maybe the actual original song is good on its own.

      id = richie-hawtin-2013-lecture
  author = 
   title = richie-hawtin-2013-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Detroit; Hawtin
 summary = I used to go to Detroit and see some people making music, Derrick May and Kevin Saunderson and these guys and they all did their things by playing live and jamming. Like, I think a couple of times you can hear things coming in and to go to Derrick May''s house, and he''d have [gesturing] his kitchen here and over here you''d have basically like this, actually, always on the floor, you know, a couple of 909 drum machines, some other things, and the mixer. something up, and I was like, "I guess that''s how he records." You know, and the one thing that we all did was we had access to reel-to-reel 2-track tapes, so there was some post-production. You know, I remember some of my other tracks were actually recorded over two DAT tapes, so they were like, 90 minutes long.

      id = richie-hawtin-pt-1-2014
  author = 
   title = richie-hawtin-pt-1-2014
    date = 
keywords = Detroit; Hawtin; Plastikman; Richie; Schmidt
 summary = You guys can, because I''m going to be here again tomorrow, but you guys can jump in if you have any kind of questions because sometimes I''m at these things and on the other side and you want to ask something and when you wait until the Q&A later, it''s like OK, maybe it doesn''t actually make sense and then you don''t ask it and you''re pissed about it for a couple of days, so jump in at any time. For the DJ shows, this is actually, it has to be this way, because I''m getting one or two thousand new demos and records every week or two, I''m going through all this, so we can play a couple of times over a month together and every every show is completely different.

      id = rick-essig-shake-the-room
  author = 
   title = rick-essig-shake-the-room
    date = 
keywords = Essig; Pulsinger
 summary = So regardless on what kind of stuff you bring out, like it might be a CD or, you said before a cassette, also mastering for cassettes you did, or vinyl – what would the people bring to you? Yeah, I mean analog tape ideally is going to sound good, but in certain aspects I understand it''s not possible. I mean, it''s so easy now to have these really pretty digital mixing tools that these guys put out for Steinberg and all that stuff that actually looks like a piece of analog gear. But the loudness is to a lot of people is very important because the record might sound good. Basically what I do is like, again: VU meters, which, you know, a lot of people don''t use these things these days. Again, I don''t know because people like different things.

      id = ritu-bhangra-in-beds
  author = 
   title = ritu-bhangra-in-beds
    date = 
keywords = RITU; asian; heinz
 summary = Just as the bhangra music of Punjab broke through barriers of language, caste and creed to become loved all over Pakistan and India, thanks to Ritu and her colleagues, Asian music has been fusing with other forms of modern dance and hip-hop to make waves around the world. There is a bus-load of serious things that, of course, I want to talk to you about, but I think before we come to the what and the why, it''s always kind of interesting for the people to know who is sitting here. I mean, if somebody said to me, "Yeah, you will be going around the world, playing the Asian underground," I wouldn''t have laughed, because that has been normal for me for the last eight, nine years. It is what some kind of people would term as Asian underground, though we, in fact, like to describe ourselves as a club music-based band.

      id = robert-henke
  author = 
   title = robert-henke
    date = 
keywords = Ableton; Berlin; Henke; Kakaire; Robert; music; thing
 summary = So as far as I know there is a lot of interesting things going on, and it''s probably wrong to look at exactly a specific type of electronic dance music for innovation, because if the music ends up in a shoe store for selling expensive shoes, you know that it can''t be underground anymore in the same way it was 25 years ago. So I need to separate a little bit what I attempt to contribute with my colleagues at Ableton, where of course the question always is how does the world musically look like in five years or ten, because we have to find answers to that, and we''re working on this of course. So I feel that I need to spend more time in the studio working on just electronic music, because I have so many ideas that I''d like to explore that are informed by the things I''m doing currently.

      id = robert-hood
  author = 
   title = robert-hood
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Detroit; Hood; Robert
 summary = As one of the founding members of the legendary Detroit techno crew Underground Resistance – alongside "Mad" Mike Banks and Jeff Mills – Robert Hood''s legacy in the electronic music world is almost peerless. Obviously, if people think about the name Robert Hood I think the first music that comes to mind is techno, but I wanted to start where you actually maybe began with music, with hip-hop. In terms of coming out of Detroit, because obviously Underground Resistance became a national and an international thing, you started touring a little bit and going to different places. A lot of people know the Underground Resistance story, so I wanted to jump ahead a little bit to when you guys grew apart and started your own things. Heaven 17 wrote this song called, "We''re Going to Live for a Very Long Time." I didn''t realize that was actually a Christian record and so the lyrics are something like, "I don''t care what the world thinks.

      id = robert-nesbitt-and-tony-gable-wheedles-groove
  author = 
   title = robert-nesbitt-and-tony-gable-wheedles-groove
    date = 
keywords = GABLE; NESBITT; ROBERT; Seattle; TONY; audience
 summary = And my first gig was with a group called… We opened for a group called the Chambers Brothers, I don''t know if you guys are probably too young to remember "Time Has Come Today?" So that was my first gig, and I was like, "Wow, this is cool." And when you start playing you think, "We''re going to have a hit record next year, we''re going to be huge, touring all over the world." So groups like Cooking Bag and Family Affair, Black And White Affair, Broham, everybody started to say, "OK, it''s great we''re playing all these other people''s songs, but are they going to remember us?" You know, to the outsider it looks like, "Ah, there was this amazing music, and it kind of just went away, and then it''s coming back again." But really it didn''t, it just turned into something else, it just kept on, and a lot of these guys are still playing.

      id = robert-ouimet-pierre-gagnon-lecture
  author = 
   title = robert-ouimet-pierre-gagnon-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Gagnon; Ouimet
 summary = The Lime Light was really known, you heard of the Lime Light, you can read it in the newspaper, you hear of it on radio, you see it on television because the reputation was that there was two places in the world to go to have a disco night, and it was, or New York, Studio 54, started in ''78 I think, but before that there was another club, or Montréal with the Lime Light. It was crazy because at the time the floor, the Lime Light was going like this [makes hand movement up and down]. A lot of things goes before that, but in the very, very short time because Robert start playing remixes, I think it was "Peter Gunn"… Tell me a little bit more about the club and the context of Montréal, I mean who was playing there and who would come through the Lime Light back then?

      id = robert-rich-tokyo-2014
  author = 
   title = robert-rich-tokyo-2014
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Member; Rich; Robert; like; music; thing
 summary = By the time he got to college at Stanford (around 1981), he began organizing "sleep concerts," playing abstract drones and soundscapes to influence audiences'' REM cycles. In his 2014 Red Bull Music Academy lecture, he discussed music as ritual, modular synths, mastering advice, magic, sampling tree frogs, and psytrance raves, among many other things. Thinking about the ways that music might''ve started archaeologically, and in listening when we started getting the John Tesh''s and things like that, which include people like Throbbing Gristle and Hafler Trio and these things, can a kind of dance music with Skinny Puppy where SPK started going and things gothy like you''d think from the music. I try to approximate the thing so that it can come out into that music. these other things play as big of a role, it seems like. when people go into things like A440 versus A432 or whatever.

      id = robyn
  author = 
   title = robyn
    date = 
keywords = Adam; Bainbridge; Robyn; like
 summary = In this conversation as part of Red Bull Music Festival New York 2018, Robyn sat with her friend and fellow artist Adam "Kindness" Bainbridge to discuss key moments from the past 20 years, why she always thinks of Prince to keep in shape and the experiences that inform her long-awaited new album. I remember thinking it was quite indicative because whenever we''re in Sweden I feel like we end up talking about the reminiscences of your childhood and spaces that you moved through. I''ve written a lot of sad songs, yeah, and sometimes people ask me, "What happened to you?" I''m like, "Oh my god." But I think... Someone on that record, I don''t remember his name, made this house song and he found his little part in it and he sampled it and he started making "Love is Free" and it became a totally different thing, but still that''s how he worked.

      id = ron-trent-stoked-on-trent
  author = 
   title = ron-trent-stoked-on-trent
    date = 
keywords = Chicago; Janson; New; Ron; Trent; York
 summary = By the time I got the chance to go out, went to hear Ron Hardy, you know, he''s been this god-like person to me, because, "Yeah, Ron Hardy plays this kind of music…" because he was like this special thing. I hate to say this, but it was bad like this because it was predominantly a gay thing and when it started to get into the heterosexual community, people had this idea that if you were listening to this kind of music, then you were gay and you were a freak, all this kind of stuff. Just so you know, we really got into making music because we as DJs… I had a music background because of playing percussion and getting into… of course, my family wanted me to play keyboards and stuff like, "You need to learn how to play piano." But I pretty much had been… how can I explain?

      id = roots-manuva-son-of-a-preacher-man
  author = 
   title = roots-manuva-son-of-a-preacher-man
    date = 
keywords = Bortot; Davide; Manuva; root
 summary = Ever since his 1999 debut album Brand New Second Hand, he has remained an essential presence on the scene, blending Jamaican soundsystem aesthetics with stripped-down productions to create a brand of hip-hop that is truly and independently British. I think a good start is always to play some music and I have a record here I think it might have been Blue Peter, and they were talking about this thing called MIDI, and how on MIDI anybody could make music. So, when you listen to Brand New Second Hand it feels like the classic hip-hop debut record in a way. I think a lot of rappers say, "OK, it is album time," they pick 16 beats and start writing and record, that''s it. didn''t seem too happy with the whole music industry, and you didn''t seem to be in a very good place back then when it came to dealing with that kind of mechanism or people.

      id = roska-the-kiss-factor
  author = 
   title = roska-the-kiss-factor
    date = 
keywords = Emma; Roska; Warren
 summary = We are here on the couch with Roska, he''s a South London producer who started out as a bedroom garage MC… He has found himself of being in a position where he is one of those few names that people even outside of UK-bass music might know. I know you have selected some music for us, so why don''t you play a Roska tune, so we start hearing what you''re about as well as hearing you talking about it? When I was looking the other day at your MySpace I noticed that you are playing at Dirty Canvas with Scratcha, and you have got something coming up at ChockABlock, which I want to ask you about because that''s an interesting event in its own right.

      id = ross-allen-country-got-soul
  author = 
   title = ross-allen-country-got-soul
    date = 
keywords = ALLEN; ROSS
 summary = You know, when I first heard, in a little record listening session, one particular tune that''s on this Country Got Soul CD, the last thing I thought I''d ever like was country music. But basically, Island Records and all major record labels are kind of cool at doing certain things but, I think as J Da Flex was saying yesterday, they can work with artists, they can work with people that write songs and perform, [but] they''re not very good at handling the producer-based stuff, which in dance music is what all of it is all about, a lot of what you guys are doing today. Because I was bringing stuff in like Dizzee Rascal and Zero 7, stuff that I''ve got just through being out and about in London, and they were just, "Yeah, they''re really good, but are they are going to sell?" That kind of thing.

      id = rp-boo-lecture
  author = 
   title = rp-boo-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Boo; Chicago; Host
 summary = Chicago producer Kavain Space, AKA RP Boo, invented footwork with his 1997 track "Baby Come On." A dancer at first, Space learned to produce thanks to Dance Mania affiliate DJ Slugo. If I''m doing damage before then, I''m like, "Where is it going to go once I get what I really want?" It''s still so much new stuff to come and be orchestrated, and I still have certain ideas with certain songs that I would like to use to help enhance that, and that''s why I''m like, "Hey, if it works it works." But I like to hear – I love to hear people talk about having a good time listening to the music, and that makes me want to do more for them. Did you ever want to quit and be like, "Oh, well, I haven''t released this by now, so I''m just going to stop making music," or "I got too busy with my work and my life," or what were you thinking during these various points?

      id = rui-vargas
  author = 
   title = rui-vargas
    date = 
keywords = Frágil; Gonsher; Vargas
 summary = As both a radio DJ and the first resident at Lisbon''s Lux Frágil nightclub, where he is also the music director today, Vargas has been entertaining and educating Portuguese audiences for three decades. And at night I stopped everything to listen to Som Da Frente, alternative rock, indie radio show that conquered and educated several generations, I believe, of Portuguese people. I think we''re gonna talk a lot about Frágil, but for now thinking about you being in that role of sitting around midnight to two in the morning, I wanna play something that might trigger some memories for you of that time, and maybe we can talk about that afterwards. Places like Frágil, of course, which was more of black music, disco, funk, boogie kind of thing. And as long as you''re not playing records you don''t like, you''re gonna continue doing this for another 30 years, do you think?

      id = russell-elevado-elevate-your-mind
  author = 
   title = russell-elevado-elevate-your-mind
    date = 
keywords = Elevado; Member; Russell
 summary = As engineer, producer and mixer for the likes of Alicia Keys, D''Angelo, the Roots, Common, Saul Williams and Erykah Badu, Elevado has won a reputation for recreating the classic sound of the ''60s and ''70s in a modern setting, an analog guy in a digital world. It''s not like I''m going around saying, "I want to work with you, I want to work with you." It''s people who come and find me because they know me for a certain sound. Let me see, it may sound corny, but it was definitely my dream project, to really show people that it could be done today, that the records that sounded so amazing in the ''70s, like Stevie Wonder, Marvin Gaye, James Brown, they could be done today with all the gear that''s out there, look at the Neumann U47s and everything. Most people who want to work with me, if they know I''m going to mix their album, they''ll make sure it''s recorded as well as possible.

      id = sal-principato-something-like-a-phenomenon
  author = 
   title = sal-principato-something-like-a-phenomenon
    date = 
keywords = Liquid; Principato
 summary = Ultimately, one of their songs became the instantly recognizable sample for Grandmaster Melle Mel & The Furious 5''s "White Lines," forever putting Liquid Liquid''s name in the hip-hop history books. And actually, you might want to know that that band that replayed it, if you listen to it it''s definitely a crappier version as far as the production and whatnot. And once you learned that instrument, you would put it down and pick up another one because really knowing how to play your instrument really well was not looked at as a good thing because it stifled creativity and innovation. And we had this punk hardcore band at this time and we had Liquid Liquid, which was like the groove music. I would like to go from the times of these early 99 Records and go a little bit further than that to after the hip-hop thing was stronger in New York.

      id = sara-creative-partners-sound-and-space-continuum
  author = 
   title = sara-creative-partners-sound-and-space-continuum
    date = 
keywords = Arnold; Chairman; Keith; Mao; Taz
 summary = The music began early for me, and the producing thing, it just so happened that a buddy of mine had a beat machine and didn''t necessarily know how to use it. Okay, well, we produced that, and that''s going to be the first thing we''d like to play right now. Unless you''re like just you know, some Don King or you know, you''re dealing with some other type of situation but for us, we really are in love with music and creativity, so you know, I think in most cases like, the hype thing is something that happens all the time so you know we meet people and they say, "I heard of Sa-Ra, you guys. A lot of us are producers who maybe are used to working on our own, and now, we''re going into studio like, three, four people and making music.

      id = scott-storch-hits-dr-dre-fat-joe-the-roots
  author = 
   title = scott-storch-hits-dr-dre-fat-joe-the-roots
    date = 
keywords = Pemberton; Rollie; Scott; Storch
 summary = Storch''s playing eventually lead him to Dr. Dre, for whom he came up with the classic piano riff that propels the 1999 hit "Still D.R.E." From there, Storch went on to feature in and produce hit records for the likes of Beyoncé, Fat Joe and Justin Timberlake, becoming one of the most sought after producers of the mid-''00s in the process. Since then, the piano man has returned to the music industry with more drive and inspiration than ever, working with some of the most exciting names in modern rap, including Young Thug, Russ and Trippie Red. In this public lecture at the Red Bull Music Festival Toronto 2018, Storch discussed his career and the stories behind hits for Dr. Dre, Fat Joe, the Roots and many others. Yeah, so, you got to tell me the story behind making this song, because I feel like, at this time, this is the next track where you''re working with somebody who''s more familiar with being in a group, right?

      id = scuba-lecture-madrid-2011
  author = 
   title = scuba-lecture-madrid-2011
    date = 
keywords = Berlin; Gerd; Janson; London
 summary = I mean, in the mid-''90s certainly, jungle was happening, which was a whole different thing entirely, but I started going out to techno clubs and house clubs which you could get I mean, I didn''t start playing but I did just fully sign up to the whole thing, which involves going to record shops and kind of loitering around (laughter) But yeah, I certainly got into buying stuff early on, and I think as soon as you start getting into that thing… I mean, the concept of vinyl, it''s quite an addictive thing, you know? But luckily for us, we actually got a proper distribution deal by release three, which is obviously the most important thing for any label, past the A&R side is the

      id = sebastian-niessen-ghost-in-the-machine
  author = 
   title = sebastian-niessen-ghost-in-the-machine
    date = 
keywords = Niessen; music
 summary = Whenever somebody gets involved in electronic music the first and major difference to play an acoustic instrument is that you have the opportunity of choosing your equipment more than just saying: "OK, I want the Steinway piano rather than a Bösendorfer or I want a Gibson guitar rather than a Fender." Which are about the choices that you have, if you play a guitar or if you play a piano. It was played like this from beginning to end and the guy who brought this quintet to life, Raymond Scott, started out as a swing bandleader and very early on he tried some techniques that there was no equipment available to do them, but he nevertheless tried to do them and his techniques were very modern. And I think it shows quite some character, because today a lot of people, when they get into electronic music, they sort of start to look around, "What is he using, what is he using?" And, "OK, I like the music he does, so I have to buy the equipment that he uses.

      id = seiji-if-it-aint-broke
  author = 
   title = seiji-if-it-aint-broke
    date = 
keywords = Nwachukwu; music
 summary = That''s when I started getting interested in making music and started fiddling about on bits of equipment, borrowed some equipment and just started making beats on crappy old MIDI sequencers and really terrible old Yamaha synths with their tinny sounds, and just started from there. He collected people around him that he got on with well and were making good music, as far as he''s concerned. If it is a slightly more organic sound, people might relax more and feel the music rather than analyzing where the snare and kicks are and things like that. The one thing I find, when I''ve been to places and played the music to people that really have no education about electronic music or dance music or modern youth culture or anything like that, and they''re literally just feeling the same music that they''re hearing and not analyzing in any way, then I find I get a much better response.

      id = seiji-vs-steinski-upgrade-to-the-downgrade
  author = 
   title = seiji-vs-steinski-upgrade-to-the-downgrade
    date = 
keywords = sound; thing
 summary = One of the things that happened with me working in the New York metropolitan area with a lot of guys that have grown up in a world of technical music making and working in the studio, is that I grabbed onto ProTools and learned how to use it. You are not sitting there thinking, "Great, this is how I can use this to make a better beat or make the vocal more sinuous or whatever you would like to do." It simplifies everything to "I got to have the new thing." But again, I found not being able to have my hands on the instrument and not having the audition buttons going click, click, click and feel like I am somehow in touch with the sound that I am making...that really didn''t work well for me, as was using Recycle to chop everything up for me. I think some really great music and innovative sounds have come out of people having to push the technology that is available to them to do what they want to do.

      id = serge
  author = 
   title = serge
    date = 
keywords = Clone; Detroit; Drexciya; Martin
 summary = Having cut his teeth at a time when DJs were expected to play all kinds of music, all night, Serge brought that training to his A&R for the label, helping to create a name and aesthetic that continues to resonate and inspire to this day both in its releases and on the dancefloor. A lot of people who get celebrated in underground electronic music are, true, the artist and DJs who are important, but the people who turn up to work every day and put in the effort to get these records out and into your hands and really completely change the culture, are the people that we want to talk to today. Selling the strange stuff, like electro stuff and records they, the guys, thought, "Who''s buying this kind of stuff?" But I knew, because I was playing at those underground parties and I was having friends.

      id = seth-troxler-lecture
  author = 
   title = seth-troxler-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Member; Troxler; like
 summary = It seems like there''s been a real divergence, and the people who are going to real niche festivals that are musically curated to that… Or I mean, a couple of weeks ago I was in New York playing at EDC [Electronic Daisy Carnival] and the crowds were so completely different. And even later in life, let''s say, once you start to become a little bit more successful, a D-list celebrity like myself, [laughs] once you start to get to this point where I''m out on the road maybe five, six days a week, and giving up some of your old, past life… I mean, it''s good to know exactly what''s in store, or what can possibly be in store for you.

      id = sheila-e-lecture
  author = 
   title = sheila-e-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Schmidt; Sheila; play
 summary = I just want to try something, and I''ll have you starting and stopping it just so I can hear it and say, "What did they play?" The middle section right here: you''re just going to do, then go [claps out rhythm]. That first time I played with my dad for real with his band, I just went, "Wow, I want to feel like this every single day. There were times when I was going to play in different situations outside of the Bay Area – I''d fly to do a session in LA, or some other places – and it was kind of weird because, like I said, no one really knew who I was. There''s a lot of people that, yeah, they''re on their laptops and they''re programming and writing music, and then when it comes to the time to get on a stage, you kind of don''t have that, I guess that "entertainment" thing, that''s what a lot of people want.

      id = sinden-wot-u-call-it
  author = 
   title = sinden-wot-u-call-it
    date = 
keywords = Emma; Sinden; Warren; music
 summary = So Sinden, Hervé, Switch have all been breaking up dancefloors over the last year or so with something which sounded to me last night like a kind of turbo ghetto dance… It''s funny, I was never really into house music until I met Switch and people like that. He started playing Baltimore club music and house and stuff. At first, I was a bit negative about it, like people downloading your music, but now I think it''s really cool and it''s really helped, the whole blog scene. Yeah, that was a remix for Mark Ronson, "Valerie." I wanted to play this because it''s a different tempo and it''s for a British grime artist called Lethal Bizzle. Hip-house isn''t the problem so much as dance music with the "here comes the cheesy rap bit." One technical question: how do you and your production partners get your bass sounding so big?

      id = sir-mixalot-baby-got-ringtones-extended-version
  author = 
   title = sir-mixalot-baby-got-ringtones-extended-version
    date = 
keywords = Got; Mix; Seattle; Sir; lot
 summary = To many, Sir Mix-A-Lot is best known for his booty anthem "Baby Got Back." But as this talk at the 2005 Red Bull Music Academy in his home town of Seattle reveals, he is a real-deal hip-hop pioneer. I had guys walking up with their girlfriends, turning her round and saying, "Yo, has she got ass?" I''m like, "Dude, I''m not the ass doctor." [Laughter] That was cool for a while but then you get into the next album and you want to try something artistically different, you want to grow, but the label doesn''t want you to grow. "What the hell''s a ringtone?" "You call this number…" I said, "Whatever, you go ahead and do what you want to do." My manager called me, "Dude, we got a check for $300,000, what happened?" "I don''t know, I just told them they could do this ringtone thing." Holy shit, there''s money in this stuff, so cats are coming back buying old school songs and putting them on their ringers.

      id = skepta-2015
  author = 
   title = skepta-2015
    date = 
keywords = Collins; London; Skepta; like
 summary = I don''t strategically go and be like, "Oh yeah I''m going to..." It''s just me, I just live my life, and I just meet people and I just love to spread energies. Men are like, "Yeah, we''re going to make this work." It''s not, "Aw, man, Skep, I don''t think..." No. I want this to happen and it''s going to happen. Yeah, I used to listen to "Piece of Shit" all the time and I went to Know Wave and I saw Wiki in the radio station and he was like, Yo Skepta! You hear a song and you know these two guys ain''t fucking with each other man, like come on. Obviously everyone wants to party and have fun and let loose, which you can do to those tracks, but I guess, like I said, yeah, you''re not going back, that was not the right way to put it.

      id = skepta-england-is-grime
  author = 
   title = skepta-england-is-grime
    date = 
keywords = Rolex; Skepta; Warren
 summary = Following some work with the Meridian and Roll Deep crews, Skepta and JME founded Boy Better Know and in a few years found themselves travelling around the world on the back of mixtapes, performances and merchandising. People who are into UK music might know about crews like Heartless Crew or Roll Deep, they might have an idea about what a crew is. I like to know that the people I''m trying to reach are coming to these places, but stay at the back if you don''t wanna... I think a lot of producers in grime could get into it now, because the production in drum & bass is so good, you can''t just do it, you can''t just make drum & bass music because it''s layered so many times. That''s the thing, writing a lyric that the general public think is about pool but putting it in a way that the people you''re talking to know it''s about something else.

      id = skream-zen-skreamism
  author = 
   title = skream-zen-skreamism
    date = 
keywords = WARREN; emma; skream
 summary = Dubstep is really a lot like the old jungle; it''s just purely stripped-down, minimal beats and bass, which I think most music should have stayed at. Basically, I started wanting to tap into that side of things because it just adds another whole contrast to your set, playing out, and just to you as a producer really because you just start branching out… just trying different things, just listening to a lot of the old dub records and seeing the methods they used. It''s just like all kids at school, if you want to be the cool sort of music people, you listen to pirate radio because it''s [got that] sort of freshness. You might have liked a station that plays one hour at two till three in the morning of music that people actually want to hear.

      id = sleepy-brown
  author = 
   title = sleepy-brown
    date = 
keywords = Atlanta; Brown; Lee; Sleepy
 summary = Me and him grew up together since elementary school and I told him, I said, "Bro, do you remember when we used to sit at the lamp post at night, sitting in the corner in the summer time talking about we wanted to be stars?" I always think about that when any great opportunity comes like that. What people have to understand about this album was, I guess, what got you to the point where you were like, "Okay, I''m going to break out and do something called Sleepy''s Theme." What was your relationship like with Organized Noise at this period in time, and what were your feelings toward that sort of work you were doing? I''d be like, "Man, that sound good if you did it this way." Or sometimes, I would be in there playing something and you know, come up with a full idea so, that''s kind of what it was.

      id = slick-rick
  author = 
   title = slick-rick
    date = 
keywords = CHAIRMAN; JEFF; MAO; Rick; Slick
 summary = In this session, the Bronx''s Slick Rick talked about his inspirations, playing characters on record, and making his seminal album The Great Adventures Of Slick Rick. Yeah, we did other things, like, other little routines, but it was pretty much this, what you said, a skinny kid, people looking at you funny, like, "Who is the point where it was like, "You gotta leave now, kid," you know what I''m So, it was big like that for us, you know what I mean, know, the people treated us like celebrities, for that time. was a time not long ago where they had pajamas on like you got on right now, Like I said before, a lot of brothers was into battling, you know what I stories and humor and whatever like that, you know what I mean? living, you know what I mean, doing shows and stuff like that.

      id = sly-and-robbie-twins-peak
  author = 
   title = sly-and-robbie-twins-peak
    date = 
keywords = Dunbar; Robbie; Sly
 summary = I went to Channel One studio and met Ernest [Ranglin], and we were talking about drum sounds and I was playing Philadelphia International records, one of my favorite labels. I said, "If we can get the drum sound something like this, it would work." It took us two years to get close and start recording songs like "M.P.L.A.", "I Need a Roof" for Mighty Diamonds and a couple of others. He left and came back with some people and said, "This is Duckie and Puma and we have a group called Black Uhuru." We started trying some songs, doing a version of "No No No," a Wailers song called "Let Him Go" and "Sun Is Shining." And I said to him, "We can cut some original songs because everyone likes the sound." The first songs we recorded were "Guess Who''s Coming to Dinner", "Shine Eye Gal" – we did six songs that day – "Plastic Smile".

      id = steely-and-clevie-easy-snappin
  author = 
   title = steely-and-clevie-easy-snappin
    date = 
keywords = Jamaica; clevie; music; steely
 summary = Legendary Jamaican dancehall/reggae duo, Steely & Clevie recall playing together professionally as kids, appearing on classic tracks backing singers like Hugh Mundell and Gregory Isaacs. The DJs influenced American rap music in the early days, people like U-Roy. But back to the record "No, No, No" by Dawn Penn, that came from an album, Steely & Clevie Present Studio One. Studio One, for those who don''t know, was a legendary recording studio in Jamaica which originated, or maybe they didn''t originate, I''m learning from Steely today, some of the classic rhythms still used today. Those days I was just a session musician, you go inside and get paid per record, but I used to play with King Tubby''s, a great producer as well, and Bunny Lee. King Jammy was a young engineer in those times, doing little things on the side.

      id = steinski-playbacks-a
  author = 
   title = steinski-playbacks-a
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Mao; record
 summary = And a friend of ours, who produced radio commercials for CBS, came in one day with a copy of Billboard magazine, threw it on the table and said, "Listen, Tommy Boy is doing a contest to remix that record and you guys really should enter." We looked at it and they had a record called "Play That Beat Mr. DJ" by MC Globe and Wiz Kid, which I already had a copy of. So we made another and that was based on James Brown, thinking, "Let''s do a record of all these great James Brown cuts." And the same thing happened, except there wasn''t a contest this time. When I made that record, around 15 years ago, there were a lot more people listening to hip-hop who remembered the thing happening.

      id = stephen-mallinder-life-is-a-cabaret
  author = 
   title = stephen-mallinder-life-is-a-cabaret
    date = 
keywords = Mallinder; New; Stephen; Warren; York
 summary = People like Brian Eno were a massive influence on us, because he was actually integrating things that were non-musical and that appealed to us. People now look at it in terms of Robert Moog and Léon Theremin, etc, but a lot of electronic music and stuff we were doing, actually, it came really from Second World War technology. I don''t know, it''s probably not the right place to talk about it, but it''s an interesting thing for another conversation about the way it has influenced British music. So, you mean that people who are interested in music are always going to look for those little spaces – the tiny, hidden holes where good stuff is happening. You know, we said: "Oh great, we''ll go to New York to record." And he probably went, "I want to go to London and record." So we actually did more stuff in London with him.

      id = stephen-o-malley
  author = 
   title = stephen-o-malley
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Member; O''Malley; Stephen; Sunn
 summary = The Osiris of drone metal has been involved with several of the genre''s key bands, including Sunn O))), Burning Witch, Khanate and KTL, and has also played an important part in linking the doom-sphere with the art world. You might know him from Pan Sonic and lots of solo work, he''s done tons of records over the years, he''s an amazing musician. I was thinking actually, when playing this, there''s several movements, it could be divided up into several tracks or whatever, if we wanted to do it that way, More black metal, for that fanzine, and then it opened up into kind of more electronic music, World Serpent-style stuff, which in a way was a little bit of an extension of the discovery process of music based around occult topics. Yeah, that band, a lot of our stuff earlier on, it was kind of like a fusion of black metal, psychedelic guitar and computer, very simply.

      id = steve-arrington
  author = 
   title = steve-arrington
    date = 
keywords = Arrington; Slave; Steve; like
 summary = His innovative vocals and drums were key to such classics as "Watching You" and "Just A Touch Of Love" with the legendary soul/funk outfit Slave and solo tracks like "Weak At The Knees" and "Nobody Can Be You." His songs have been sampled by the likes of Jay-Z, Snoop, N.W.A., and Mariah Carey, among countless others. I want you to be my drummer as well." So I went from just getting it together to, next thing I know, I got this gig with the flute player who opened up for Coke Escovedo, And I ended up moving in his house and he decided to take me under his wing and show me this whole salsa Latin thing, because he said, his words were, "You can play the notes, but you have to understand the language of the music." And that''s what he taught me.

      id = steve-beckett-the-warp-factor
  author = 
   title = steve-beckett-the-warp-factor
    date = 
keywords = Beckett; Steve; artist; music; people
 summary = The secret is signing incredible artists who''ve got a vision about where they''re going and have mastered the instruments for whatever form they''re working in, so the instruments and technology don''t get in the way of their personality – so the personality of Aphex Twin or Boards Of Canada start uniquely coming through the music they''re creating, so people can hear that direct emotional contact with the artist, rather than just hearing what the equipment is. We''ve got a great reputation and I''m sure Mark [Pritchard] will confirm this, but we''re one of the few labels that actually pay people right on the dot when we say we will and really clearly account to them, so we''re still working with artists we''ve been working with for 17 years, like Nightmares On Wax or LFO, Autechre and Aphex Twin… we''ve been working with those guys for ten years.

      id = steve-reich-the-music-maker
  author = 
   title = steve-reich-the-music-maker
    date = 
keywords = New; Reich; Steve; Warren; music; musician
 summary = The New York Times called Steve Reich "our greatest living composer." Experienced in the field of Western classical, Reich managed to transcend regional and cultural boundaries, incorporating influences from around the world as well as from past, present and future. Among his most famous compositional adventurous and critically acclaimed works are Different Trains, Music For 18 Musicians or pieces like Come Out. is an American composer, who started off working with tape loops and recorded speech, and made music you''ll be familiar with, things like to the piece of music we''re going to play and talk about. If you''re listening to the piece with headphones, it feels like this – the sound comes over How did the music sound to you at the time and how was it seen by people you I think all music comes from a time and I felt after It''s Gonna Rain and another tape piece called Come Out, this

      id = steve-spacek-wizard-in-oz
  author = 
   title = steve-spacek-wizard-in-oz
    date = 
keywords = Benji; Spacek; Steve
 summary = To him, the music and the vibe are more important than the song, with the voice being little more than another instrument. I remember when I got hold of "Eve," it was a long time before your album came have this little vibe and then the next day I''ll wake up and think, "I''ve got I feel that, I want to put that down and create a vibe and if people are got quite a full-on vibe, and then me and Morgan will try to pull things back, You just play music and you want people to see it for what it is, not Saadiq''s studio when we were working on his album and he was coming down and hanging out with all these people. the album to not just be about songs, but about music, I want people to really precise so you lead people along, but you''ve got to make sure other things are

      id = stretch-and-bobbito-2012
  author = 
   title = stretch-and-bobbito-2012
    date = 
keywords = Armstrong; Bobbito; Chairman; Mao; New; Stretch
 summary = In a 2012 public conversation in San Francisco with Jeff "Chairman" Mao, Stretch (the DJ) and Bobbito (the MC) talked about their legendary guests, their bizarre listeners and how they earned the title "the greatest hip-hop radio show of all time." You guys are fans, obviously, of hip-hop radio in New York, how did that make you guys feel at the time? At first, I didn''t know if I had a right, if I was justified to represent hip-hop on radio in New York. But we got all these letters from people that would say, "Yo, you''re making my bid easier ''cause I have something to look forward to every Thursday night." These are like dudes from Rahway Prison, life sentences. a lot of important people became A&R''s, became the foundation for ''90s hip-hop in New York, through this circle that you guys were a part of.

      id = strobocop-karaoke-king
  author = 
   title = strobocop-karaoke-king
    date = 
keywords = Dwyer
 summary = Besides Karaoke Kalk, artists Takagi Masakatsu, Julee Cruise and Antonelli, label boss Thorsten Lutz likes to sit on the fence, creating his own niche next to the competing camps of post-glitch a la Mouse on Mars and minimal techno that have traditionally dominated the music scene in his hometown of Cologne. I think this was the reason that a lot of labels, especially in this kind of electronica/house/techno, labels like Kompakt, Areal, Italic, maybe Karaoke Kalk and all these labels, could grow. How long have you been DJing for and tell us a bit about the foundations of the music scene in Cologne, say in the ''80s, and when you first started to play records? So I was really impressed, thinking, "Wow, this is nice." And so I became more and more addicted to this kind of electronic music and at the same time Delirium, which was a record shop ran by the people who later were doing the Kompakt shop, was my second home.

      id = stuart-hawkes-wino-made-me-do-it
  author = 
   title = stuart-hawkes-wino-made-me-do-it
    date = 
keywords = Hawkes; Janson; Member; Stuart
 summary = In his lecture at the 2008 Red Bull Music Academy, Hawkes walked the audience through the technical hoops of audio technology, the differences between mixing and mastering and shed some light on what happens at the end of the music-making process. When I released my EP I worked with two producers and they had two different looks on how to push the tracks, and I worked with a mastering studio called Cutting Room in Sweden. If I was mastering it straight off a two-track stereo file and I thought I was going to add some brightness, bring up the hi-hats up or whatever because they weren''t cutting through enough, then all I''d say is bring the hi-hats on Pro Tools, bring that instead, and in the end when... Most of the time when you are cutting vinyl you are doing it from a mastered digital file, which is going to be used on CD, which is maybe not played in clubs, it''s more for home use or downloads or whatever.

      id = subpop-session
  author = 
   title = subpop-session
    date = 
keywords = JASPER; MEGAN; NICK; Pop
 summary = In conversation at the 2005 Red Bull Music Academy, Sub Pop''s Carly Starr, Mark Arm and Megan Jasper tell us about the label''s growth and the city''s transition, of the storm that was whipping up around them and how they survived once the public eye turned elsewhere. Just to give people an idea of the foundations that Sub Pop was laid on, what was the music scene like in Seattle in the late ''70s and early ''80s? At one point they believed Sub Pop owed them quite a lot of money and they were just, "We''re gonna come up there and trash the fucking joint, you people better run." [laughs] "We were all like, yeah, OK." I think maybe one person left – Milo, the kid who worked downstairs – but everyone else stuck around.

      id = susan-rogers-lecture
  author = 
   title = susan-rogers-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Prince; Rogers; Schmidt; Susan; Torsten; like; music; record
 summary = But I just kind of remember thinking, "I love music, but this just isn''t speaking to me the way it seems to speak to other people." Then I remember hearing Sly Stone on the radio and then it''s like, "Now that''s what I''m talking about," and just feeling like... Interesting that you mention him, because a lot of people that worked with him would always say, "I came up under Tony Maserati," so it seems like there''s a clear hierarchical thinking in the same way as it used to be with, let''s say, painters or high-scale photographers or whatever where you have this master-apprentice relationship. If your mistakes are completely off the rails and they don''t know where you''re coming from, they''ll probably say "I don''t recognize you." Tony Maserati said, when he does have really talented young people who are not like him, who want to party on the weekends, he''ll tell them "I think you''re cut out for this business, but not the studio business.

      id = suzanne-ciani-lecture
  author = 
   title = suzanne-ciani-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Buchla; Bächer; Ciani; Member
 summary = Unable to secure interest from labels, Ciani worked on commercials, and starting in the late ''80s she redefined herself again as a five-time Grammy-nominated new age artist. By the time I met Don, I was proselytized with his new vision, which is that he was making a performance instrument in the tradition of musical instruments that you play live. I don''t know if you wanted to hear all of this story but I decided to change the theater, so I started a corporation called the Electronic Center for New Music. At that time you were doing ads and sound design for machines such as this one, but were you involved in playing on other people''s music? I think maybe we''re mixing new age and ambient as a whole, like this healing music thing.

      id = sway-politix-of-the-business
  author = 
   title = sway-politix-of-the-business
    date = 
keywords = London; people
 summary = Like, I would do a freestyle where people would tell me what to rap about, and there was another thing: I was rapping about downloading, which was very current at the time because I got a track – you lot are understanding what I''m saying, right? Usually, with mixtapes from American artists is tracks that never made it to their album or tracks that are going to be really big, and they play like two seconds of it, wheel it back and throw sound effects all over it. If people were comparing me to crap acts, this is where you need to start questioning them, like, "What are you talking about?" But to be compared to some of the biggest acts in hip-hop was a good thing for me. They''re doing their thing, and there is a lot of American artists realising that, "Look, those British boys got something going on," and everybody wants their DTP UK or Def Jam UK.

      id = syd-lecture
  author = 
   title = syd-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Syd; like; raven
 summary = We''re gonna be talking about various things, working with Odd Future, your production process in the studio, stuff like that, but I thought we''d begin by talking a bit about live performance. That''s what it turned into, and it''s funny because my A&R was the one who booked me all these sessions, and I''m like, "Oh dope, I get to work with Hit Boy. I''m going to get his song to so and so," and I hadn''t even signed my record deal yet, my solo deal. Songs that I genuinely would want to sing myself, because I feel like that''s the best way to write and produce for other artists is to give them something that you truly think is fire. And in my head I was like, "Let me play these for some folks and see who might want them." I also came to realize that I have a pretty specific voice, and that not anybody can sing my songs.

      id = tadd-mullinix-deep-down-in-detroit
  author = 
   title = tadd-mullinix-deep-down-in-detroit
    date = 
keywords = Dabrye; Detroit; Mullinix; like
 summary = Since first taking to music in his teens, the Michigan-native has developed a chameleon-like ability to shift between genres and styles while maintaining an understanding of what makes people react and move: hip-hop as Dabrye, house and techno as JTC, experimental electronic under his birth name, EBM as Charles Manier and all-out ragga jungle as SK-1 alongside his friend Soundmurderer AKA Scott Osborn. At that time, I got hired by Todd to work at Dubplate Pressure and this guy named Sam Valenti comes into the store and says, "Hey, I heard you make house music." And I was like, "Yeah, I mean I got a couple of house tracks but I''ve been making all kinds of stuff." I mean, as soon as I got AST I was making anything I really wanted, because I was really into Pete Rock and Premier and there was this DJ PNS from The Molemen in Chicago, who had some Fresh Produce mix tapes, one was called.

      id = tanya-tagaq-lecture
  author = 
   title = tanya-tagaq-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Member; Mistry; Tagaq; Tanya
 summary = I think maybe something else that people might not know is that when kids were sent to residential schools, part of what happened there is there''s a loss of language and a loss of culture which came along with that. I want people to get a bit more of a sense kind of, of the history of throat singing. I was having so much fun, and then these people came up to me afterwards and said, "Do you mind if we record a bit of what you do?" I was like, "OK, no problem." I gave them some vocal recordings, and then two weeks later I got a call from Björk saying she wanted me to go down to New York City and meet her. I think sometimes people who come from marginalized groups often feel like it''s a burden to have to talk about this kind of stuff when they''re making art as well.

      id = tde-producers-mixedbyali-sounwave-tae-beast
  author = 
   title = tde-producers-mixedbyali-sounwave-tae-beast
    date = 
keywords = B.Dot; Beast; Miller; like
 summary = Sounwave and Tae Beast are producers, helping to shape albums by artists like Kendrick Lamar, Ab-Soul, Schoolboy Q and Jay Rock as well as working with the likes of Mac Miller and St. Vincent. At the end of the day it was more fun, but you have to go back and forth with the artist and go back and forth with the label to get it to their likings and stuff, so that was the only thing that kind of took a little bit of time. I get a lot of people who call me and say, "Hey man, I made this beat for Kendrick," and they send it to me because they want me to quote, unquote, play it. Just the other day, he sent me a record that I forgot completely about, and then I was like, man, I''m about to get this Kendrick right now because this song is too hard.

      id = teddy-riley-lecture
  author = 
   title = teddy-riley-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Mao; Michael; New; Riley; Teddy; like
 summary = In the late ''80s and early ''90s, Riley virtually masterminded the New Jack Swing genre as the man behind hits by Keith Sweat, Guy, Blackstreet and Bobby Brown, while also co-producing Michael Jackson''s Dangerous album and giving the Neptunes their first break. And I didn''t get it until I was at that airport, and I had to call her and I said, "I think I''m going to have to come and stay with you until I''m able to make some money to get back to my family." And she said, "Do you still have that silver card that you''ve been joking in your bag?" And I''m a hoarder of cards, I''m a real hoarder, I keep cards, and I go back to them it''s like, "Bam, I remembered I needed a guitar player or I remember I needed a stylist," and I get all these cards and I keep them, if I have my bag here I will show you all my cards, just people and meeting them and seeing, this person I can help this person, or this person, we can do some things together, or it could be useful to what I''m doing.

      id = teki-latex-lecture
  author = 
   title = teki-latex-lecture
    date = 
keywords = France; Host; Latex; Teki; french; music
 summary = Some of your favorite French songs, and talk a bit about French music and where he comes from, and then we''ll lead into more about the history of TTC and Sound Pellegrino and Institubes and all those great things. Basically, he''s trying to make pop music but the thing that comes out are songs like "Zoolook," which experiments with vocals and African rhythms and in a bit of a weird way, and in a bit of an awkward way, but the result is actually really good. I''m not a rap journalist but if you have the opportunity to talk to one or read about it at some point, there was legendary showcases that turned into big riots that they would talk about on the news on the next day, that happened in France at that time, especially a concert by X-Men, which was a French group and I''m going to play a song a little bit later on.

      id = terre-thaemlitz-deep-thoughts
  author = 
   title = terre-thaemlitz-deep-thoughts
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Thaemlitz; like; music
 summary = On 2009''s acclaimed Midtown 120 Blues, released on Mule, Thaemlitz also took a wry look at house music itself; challenging listeners every bit as much as entertaining them, and creating a landmark album in the process. these kind of record collections of what we consider to be obscure electronic music from the ''70s and ''80s and stuff, when in fact, the only reason it fell I lived on 6th and B in Manhattan, so it was kind of near the Dance Tracks record store, the legendary house music shop of the East Village. homophobic kid playing hip-hop and stuff?" So this is all kind of things that were also part of that scene and of course that also has to do with the johns that would rights stuff and that sort of thing, and Annie Sprinkle was doing her kind of try to mix bits of electronic country music or things that people wouldn''t

      id = terri-hooley
  author = 
   title = terri-hooley
    date = 
keywords = Belfast; Hooley; Lauren; Martin; Terri; record
 summary = So, the BBC, many, many years later, phoned me up and went, "Is it true, the grandfather of punk is a big Hank Williams fan?" I said, "I absolutely am." They said, "Would you like to come in and talk – it''s his birthday tomorrow?" I went, "I''d love to." I told that story, and a woman got in touch with the BBC and wanted to know how to get in touch with me, because they didn''t know where I''d first heard it. If you go back and look at the Stones and the Beatles and a lot of bands that were doing covers of American records, and I was the secretary… I was running a folk club, a shebeen in the high street, then it sort of closed down, and Dougie Knight asked me if I''d like to run the blues club in his shop on a Sunday night.

      id = terry-riley
  author = 
   title = terry-riley
    date = 
keywords = Ghosn; Riley; Terry
 summary = The early influence of jazz greats such as John Coltrane and Miles Davis, as well as the work of his friend and peer La Monte Young, fueled his desire for experimentalism, resulting in unique pieces such as "In C," a modular musical construction considered by many to be the first minimalist composition. In this public conversation as part of the Red Bull Music Festival Paris 2018, Riley sat down with Joseph Ghosn to discuss the genius of John Coltrane, his solo all-night concerts with the Phantom Band and the process of plunderphonics. So I would learn songs on the radio and stuff, and try to figure them out and play them by ear and I think that''s why I''m interested now in improvisation, because I always had an oral approach to music.

      id = the-black-madonna-lecture
  author = 
   title = the-black-madonna-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Black; Chicago; Kentucky; Madonna; Martin; like
 summary = I would love to talk about the rave scene in the Midwest at that point because I think people who are familiar with American dance music tropes think of the big cities like Chicago, Detroit, New York. One day, one of my old co-workers from Dust Traxx called me and he said, "Hey, what are you doing?" I said, "Nothing." He goes, "What do you do for a living right now?" I said, "I''m writing about women''s underwear." He''s like, "Hey, I want you to come put in a job application at smartbar.'' I was like, "OK." He goes, "By the way, don''t tell anybody this, but I''m leaving next year and when I do, you''ll probably take over the whole thing." I was like, "What?" I went in and I sat down with Joe, and I can say in my entire life, in the whole history of people that I''ve met, there''s a tiny handful that I knew that, "This person is going to be in your life and change it forever." The minute I sat down with Joe, I knew that would happen, and I knew at first I was going to be given the assistant job, which is a job typically done by people in their 20s, and at this point I''m 35 or whatever, but I was willing to do anything, and I did.

      id = the-bug-soundsystem
  author = 
   title = the-bug-soundsystem
    date = 
keywords = Bug; Warren; music
 summary = And having first moved to London and having discovered the joys of Jah Shaka, Iration Steppas, Aba Shanti-I, reggae soundsystem events; and unfortunately a lot of clubs you play just think you''re a lunatic when you ask for more bass, more bass. When I started my music career I probably just wanted to use volume as a sadistic tool to make people suffer, because I was suffering at the time and I needed an outlet. However anyone wants to react, is up to them, but fundamentally, I know the music shows that I enjoyed most I would talk about for weeks afterwards, and would literally change my way of thinking somehow about life, music, sound, etc. I made the decision to have sound men tour with me because I''d be playing shows where people would say either they couldn''t hear the vocals, or the music wasn''t loud enough, or it was just weak in some way.

      id = the-diplomats
  author = 
   title = the-diplomats
    date = 
keywords = INFO; Jones; MISS; Santana
 summary = It''s almost like the way that you guys had more time, let''s say, just using of the richest people to come out of Harlem from hustling and things like getting a little bit more different, like just Cam, Juelz, now it''s Wiz kept telling me about him, but I''m like, "Look, man, let me get my thing We actually had a little deal, like Cam said, it wasn''t a good Cam walk on in the studio right now, it''s pressure on n---as, like, "I gotta Just like Cam said, Dame wanted everybody to be bosses. You know why I think people liked us so much is ''cause lifestyle. control." Cam did the Roc-A-Fella deal, I''m like, "Since we''ve got this You know, we''ll come like, "Hey Jay, how are you doing?" wanted to let you know I think your nice, my n---a." I''m like, "No, I

      id = the-original-jazzy-jay-a-time-before-crack
  author = 
   title = the-original-jazzy-jay-a-time-before-crack
    date = 
keywords = Ariefdien; Bronx; Jay; Jazzy; Nation; Zulu
 summary = As a DJ alongside the iconic "master of records," Afrika Bambaataa, his experiences in the early days of hip-hop are a true insight into a culture forming. As part of the first generation of DJs to be born of the culture, Jay''s digging and selecting skills informed not just those who sought to emulate him behind the turntables but also those who began to think about producing hip-hop. In this lecture at the 2007 Red Bull Music Academy, Jazzy Jay recalled those early turbulent days with reverence and enthusiasm, from digging for records to battling Kool Herc. stuff for Def Jam with cats like Rick Rubin, or with [1984 hip-hop dance movie] Beat Street, or when I son likes a lot of the new hip-hop, but he knows the deal, that someone''s You know, a lot of years in this thing called hip-hop.

      id = theo-parrish-3-cheers-for-the-d
  author = 
   title = theo-parrish-3-cheers-for-the-d
    date = 
keywords = Chicago; Detroit; Janson; parrish; play; theo
 summary = [Holds up record cover] I would look at this and say, "That''s Stevie Wonder, that''s him right there!" I can see that, I can feel that, I can go in the store and I knew that wherever I went in the world, that if I saw this, that was a likeness of the individual that I associated with that music. You went to school the next day, and people had recorded it, and I was like, "I got to learn how to record it!" I didn''t know how to record it. But if I were to get some individuals that I like to be playing with, some people that want to come with me, then I might be kind of interested." So, I talked to a lot of musicians I was cutting with at that time, and this is over the course of several years, I didn''t really start working with musicians until my 11th release.

      id = tiga-the-eye-of-the-tiga
  author = 
   title = tiga-the-eye-of-the-tiga
    date = 
keywords = Emma; Warren; like
 summary = Did you think there''s like a whole canon of the dance music that got this early ''90s theme going on today that... I mean, they had a few great years and a lot of great records at a time when the one else was doing it and so that''s what made an impression on people and that''s the legacy, you know? As soon as you enter the vocal realm, as soon as things are a little bit song-oriented and there is a voice to it, especially if it''s your voice, I personally think it serves the music best to develop an identity around that. There''s a lot of love songs and I like the idea of interludes, that''s kind of a hip-hop thing.

      id = tim-hecker-lecture
  author = 
   title = tim-hecker-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Hecker; Member; Tim; Todd; like
 summary = Yeah, I wrote a chapter on this, kind of like a sonic arms race, where a small section of pipe organ builders in the early 20th century were kind of fighting to build the world''s loudest musical instrument, and that at that point was through pipe organs, which are using jet turbine wind systems to create really intense force, and that lasted for a short while because it was kind of shrill and bombastic. Yeah, I mean, I kind of came out of music, just like failed bands, and friends who were too wasted and wouldn''t show up the next day. Like words, "sculpture," "painting," "figuration." Is that the way, I mean, that your brain has always worked in terms of thinking about the music that you make?

      id = tim-westwood-im-a-dj-this-is-what-i-does
  author = 
   title = tim-westwood-im-a-dj-this-is-what-i-does
    date = 
keywords = Westwood
 summary = I definitely respect it back then, but to see how big and powerful and rich it is now, that''s the real revolution, which hip-hop has given us and I think that is a beautiful thing. What used to happen is, the records would come in to the specialist stores, certain stores were known for hip-hop, and on the pirates it would be mostly club DJs. So what guys would be doing in the clubs and the parties would be what they''d be doing on the radio. I learned the business early from working with people like Marley Marl, you know, the hottest DJ of that era on WBLS. Like "Money Mad," I never played on the radio once, but it was such a big record on the streets, but I thought people would say… You know, so it just wasn''t where I wanted to be.

      id = titica
  author = 
   title = titica
    date = 
keywords = Angola; Member; Mistry; Titica
 summary = Titica is one of the biggest stars of kuduro, a music and dance style native to Angola and the Angolan diaspora in Portugal that is a collision of trans-Atlantic sounds: techno, soca, zouk, hip-hop, house. Raised in Luanda, Angola''s capital city, the artist born Teca Miguel Garcia cut her teeth as a dancer, before translating that passion to MCing within the sparky style of kuduro. So, as fans and makers and thinkers on music, I think we have to acknowledge the way that sound, across time and around the world, has penetrated the human body. And maybe can you talk a bit about how kuduro is perceived against sounds like semba and kizomba? Can you tell us a bit about semba music and learning how to work in a different style? "Reza Madame" is the picture warning the other kuduro female singers that they should pray because I have come out with a song that is going to take hold of Angola and the world.

      id = todd-edwards
  author = 
   title = todd-edwards
    date = 
keywords = Edwards; Todd; WARREN; emma
 summary = Todd''s trademark sound on his early releases on NYC house labels like i! Records and Nervous quickly cemented his status in underground dance music circles across the pond, in the time before London''s 2-step sound had morphed into grime. In his 2013 Red Bull Music Academy lecture, Edwards discussed the differences between house and garage, micro-sampling, spirituality and more. music, but at the time, like I said, I just loved what all the producers were like after 20 years of listening to music, things that are usually harder, know, I mean, people were accepting of this, of a lot of samples. what I would do, you know, like sampling-wise, except I had all the musical because he''s like, "You know, you actually helped kind of save the track." You know, I mean, the thing about it is, like, when you hear But I''m like, "I don''t want that." I mean, think about it.

      id = todd-rundgren
  author = 
   title = todd-rundgren
    date = 
keywords = Rundgren; TORSTEN; Todd; music; schmidt; thing
 summary = Starting out in garage-rock band the Nazz, Todd Rundgren moved seamlessly through prog, power pop and hard rock and became a heavyweight record producer, with the massive multiplatinum Bat Out of Hell to his credit. build a new sensibility, or trying to listen to music in a different way, so especially if you''re writing on a certain kind of instrument, like a guitar. started getting into things of, like, bunching notes up against each other And by the time I got to a record like wanted to figure out what contemporary music sounded like. songwriter, or into a music writer of some kind, is not like, "Oh, I could eventually evolved into people who placed the music and stuff like that most of the record, you''ll hear lots of things that sound like Hammond record a little after the ''70s that sounded like this. a few music shows and stuff like that, and doing that little demonstration.

      id = tokimonsta-tokyo-2014
  author = 
   title = tokimonsta-tokyo-2014
    date = 
keywords = Member; Warren; like; music
 summary = sound like this and I''m going to go and make tracks towards this one goal." I producer, and the way that I decided to work with my vocals in the tracks, For example, with a track like that the voice doesn''t sound too manipulated like to use a lot is making the pitch vocal sound artificial on purpose. I don''t know if it''s that easy for you guys to hear, but like the high vocals know how to do this kind of stuff anyways but it''s little things like this in listen to my stuff and be like, "I want us to make a track to this one beat," It kind of goes both way like anime music I just wanted to know if you could say a bit about how like you I wanted it to sound like it''s earthy sound, a lot of it is just like making things super thick because the

      id = tom-gabriel-warrior-lecture
  author = 
   title = tom-gabriel-warrior-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Christie; Gabriel; Hellhammer; Warrior
 summary = The man whose guttural singing had a profound effect on the vocal stylings of death metal is today regarded as a pioneer for his work as part of Hellhammer, Celtic Frost, Apollyon''s Sun and, most recently, Triptykon. Sitting down with author Ian Christie during the 2016 Red Bull Music Academy Weekender in Zürich, Fischer discussed the early years of Hellhammer, standing firm in the face of opposition and some of the lessons a life in metal has taught him. For instance, when it came time to produce something that people could listen to at home around the world, you were aware of this demo trading scene, which is probably not something we have the time to fully detail right here, but a worldwide network of people experiencing bands like Venom and the new wave of British heavy metal bands and then Metallica and the American bands.

      id = tom-moulton
  author = 
   title = tom-moulton
    date = 
keywords = BURNS; Moulton; TODD
 summary = Tom Moulton is the producer famed for his mixes of Gloria Gaynor''s "Never Can Say Goodbye," MFSB''s "Love Is the Message" and hundreds of other disco and soul songs, beginning with B.T. Express''s 1974 hit "Do It (''Til You''re Satisfied)." He''s credited with a remarkable series of innovations, which he says all happened by accident, including the 12" single and the continuous disco mix. In his 2013 Red Bull Music Academy lecture, Moulton remembered his teenage years ordering singles for record stores and recounted how he got from there to the gay nightlife of Fire Island. and asking for a record they didn''t have that they said, "Look, kid, we''d like I said, "I''d like to order the records here for you, I work for you got the Supremes album?" Yeah, I said, "You want it mono or stereo?" Well, I heard little things like that, you know, and I said OK.

      id = tom-oberheim-polyphonic-one-love
  author = 
   title = tom-oberheim-polyphonic-one-love
    date = 
keywords = ARP; Moog; Oberheim; Schmidt; Tom
 summary = I think in some ways Bode was like a mentor for Bob, and the idea of taking circuits and making modules that you could hook together with patch cords, which is, of course, the first Moog synthesizer was that, the basic idea of doing that came from Bode. The guy who designed this and the ad agency that helped me do this, they were into far-out music, so it wasn''t going into a big advertisement agency and spend lots of money, it was more like friends doing stuff. Well, I know for sure that Keith Jarrett didn''t really want to play electronics – he''s said that in interviews, he hates electronics – but I think the jazz musicians who did this kind of experimental work with ring modulators, they immediately made it a musical thing and it was more accepted.

      id = tom-tom-club
  author = 
   title = tom-tom-club
    date = 
keywords = Chris; David; Frantz; Tina; Tom; Weymouth
 summary = As Tom Tom Club, the husband-and-wife team of Chris Frantz and Tina Weymouth have had a wild career, from being in the center of the downtown New York scene in the early ''80s — the crucible where punk, new wave, and hip-hop melted together — to playing in the Talking Heads and working with everyone from Lou Reed to Grandmaster Flash to Sly & Robbie. I think one guy said, "That''s the worst name I ever heard." We thought, "That''s good." It also didn''t seem to connote any particular kind of music, and we were trying to create our own niche at that time because we thought, "Well, there are so many other bands doing rock & roll so much better than we know how, so maybe we should do something that other people aren''t doing."

      id = tom-ze-lecture
  author = 
   title = tom-ze-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Alapatt; Egon; Tom
 summary = In 2011 Red Bull Music Academy lecture, he traces the origins of this counter culture, the dictatorship in Brazil, his first albums, and gives a spontaneous recitation of the Madrid telephone directory. assuming that we got some working knowledge on people like Caetano Veloso, Gilberto Gil, Gal Costa, Os Mutantes, bands like this? interested in Aristotle''s, a thing I started to call "logical garbage." We were strongly influenced by this Arabic culture, much more by the Aristotelian music, but it came from the "logical garbage." [Applause] Now we are asking the help of Egon because our time is precious. they are importing music, releasing records in Brazil, and making records like I''m glad that it comes out like this for you and other people because at the time I was in such a mess when I composed the song that I didn''t get where I

      id = tony-andrews-keep-the-signal-chain
  author = 
   title = tony-andrews-keep-the-signal-chain
    date = 
keywords = Andrews; Inaudible; Janson; Tony; thing
 summary = relatively new then, and the idea occurred to me, "What we need is for a band to be hi-fi quality," so that''s the kind of mission I decided I was going to get into – to try to get hi-fi quality at really loud levels. I can explain why we have such good audio perception and how it helps our survival, but why we''ve come up with music and we''ve got a scale that sounds in or out of tune is a fascinating question and I''m not saying I know the answer. I''ve got tracks I put on that I know well, because the human voice is what we actually listen to most of the time. So, if you get to know a good well-recorded vocal track and put it on your speakers, it''s going to tell you an awful lot straight away. Sound, we''re actually struggling with the way people drive things most of the time.

      id = tony-colman-gravytrain
  author = 
   title = tony-colman-gravytrain
    date = 
keywords = Colman; Schmidt
 summary = The whole Hospital thing is kind of striking because for a label, which is actually functioning in the drum & bass arena, it''s pretty open. And that sounds like a little bit of a cliche, but at the end of the day, it''s one thing making music, but it''s quite another thing when you are in the position of responsibility helping other people to make music. Which is why when we get people making music from a different part of the world, who haven''t got those kinds of structural prejudices. All I feel is each and every one of us here, who is involved in producing music or bringing music to people in some way – whether that''s performing or administrating or whatever, and if you want to make a living out of making music, then you need to think about what you are doing when you are downloading someone''s tune without asking them.

      id = tony-dawsey-icing-the-cake
  author = 
   title = tony-dawsey-icing-the-cake
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Dawsey; Mao; record
 summary = You could spend hours with this super-humble New York engineer talking about frequencies, analog versus digital, half-inch tapes and studio monitors to try to catch any possible secret of mastering. And one of the worst things an engineer can go through is somebody to comes in with a tape that doesn''t sound very good and then tell you to make it sound like one of the better sounding records that are on the market. I don''t know, I recently had some people calling me and telling me that they want to open up a mastering suite using a Pro Tools rig, but the guy was saying, I guess he was an engineer, "I can''t understand why I can''t get it to sound as good as some of your records?" And I was like: "Hmmm, that''s why I get the big bucks, I guess, you know?" [laughs] I''m not saying that you have to spend a lot of money to get your record mastered right, but there''s a level of difference, you know?

      id = tony-humphries-lecture
  author = 
   title = tony-humphries-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Humphries; New; Schmidt; Tony; Torsten
 summary = Tony Humphries is the leader of the "Jersey sound" – a formative influence to a whole generation of artists, producers and DJs. His work behind the decks – whether it be at Newark nightclub Zanzibar, on KISS FM, or mixing some of dance music''s most beloved tracks – is undeniable. There''s a lot of different things in there that people would be surprised about to see your name attached playing stuff like that now. I was like, "I wonder how many people know about this place?" I said, "I hope nobody finds out about this place." [laughs] Since everyone wanted to play in the Paradise Garage, obviously, as big as it was. I''m thinking, "The lights are on, it''s 11:30 in the morning, and these people won''t go home." I''m like, "I got a show to do." [laughs] Oh, man, but it was fun times.

      id = tony-visconti-1
  author = 
   title = tony-visconti-1
    date = 
keywords = Beatles; Berlin; Bowie; David; Rex; Tony; Visconti
 summary = In his 2011 Red Bull Music Academy lecture, he relays how some unplanned work on a ''60s landmark got him a job in London, just as things peaked with Hendrix''s arrival and the release of Sgt. Pepper''s Lonely Hearts Club Band. I do what the label tells me to do but I work with the band because I''m a fellow musician and I know musicians have dreams and they want to get their stuff down on tape and that''s not an easy thing when you have to get everybody in the team on the same page. With a person like Morrissey or Bowie, or anyone really, they come in with a passion, they''ve written the music – most people I work with write their own music – and they tell me what they want. We worked in Hansa, which was a studio where you record symphony orchestras, you can have about 150 pieces in this room, and here was David Bowie standing

      id = toro-y-moi
  author = 
   title = toro-y-moi
    date = 
keywords = Moi; Reynaldo; Toro
 summary = I played maybe five shows before that as Toro y Moi. Yeah, I just started Yeah, that''s the only thing I could think of doing that would let people know When you''re playing live, I mean listening to that song, there''s a lot of sort Yeah, or were you trying to shut that… I mean it sounds like you weren''t I mean, no one thinks that they sound like anyone, but people want people to think that Toro y Moi was like a DJ or just dance music, so I Yeah, I mean that''s when I''ll go and do something else like just play with my It seems like when you started Toro y Moi, and even when the first album came I''m like, "Yeah, I know, I If I am just like, "No, I don''t want to play that song today," then that But you know, I like my songs...

      id = toshio-matsuura-transposed-in-translation
  author = 
   title = toshio-matsuura-transposed-in-translation
    date = 
keywords = GERD; TOSHIO
 summary = One of the pioneers of the acid jazz sound, and member of the seminal production outfit United Future Organisation, Toshio Matsuura has been a driving force on the Japanese music scene for two decades. Like, then Gilles Peterson was still an A&R at Talking Loud, and there was this wonderful genre called acid jazz or dancefloor jazz where people tried to melt jazz aesthetics with club aesthetics. Play more of one genre, [people] ask me], but I want to make surprise and I want to make think, you know, sometimes educate to way to listening. After acid jazz, maybe become big like trip-hop or any other music, but still there is but quite difficult to find. Yeah, so it''s quite to difficult play same time, but try to fit a more natural [inaudible] and the people who listening to that, this tune and is most important.

      id = toteking
  author = 
   title = toteking
    date = 
keywords = Alta; like
 summary = And it was like, "Man, that''s not New York, that''s much fresher, more musical, but at the same time it''s so rapper!" So, as a result of that Xzibit album, I think it was called "Paparazzi," or not, that was the song. And I also like the feeling of writing with something else, and changing the rap later to a new beat. For example, with a random guy like Hozone, we discovered a thing that I love, which I haven''t done again, because many people don''t want to. People usually like to work by ear, with what goes together, and I said, "No, I''ll try something, leave the drums loop with the bass playing, we''ll drag random samples over it and see what happens." A Camarón sample, three guitar players and a singer. We had a time in which, it''s true that it was a lot, rappers told tales, and talked about semi-intellectual concepts, rap songs that were about things, had a topic, and now we''ve gone over to the opposite side.

      id = toy-selectah-toy-story
  author = 
   title = toy-selectah-toy-story
    date = 
keywords = Selectah; Toy; Warren
 summary = Antonio Hernandez is in the unusual position of being both a well-established artist, in his role as driving force behind champion Mexican ''90s hip hop outfit Control Machete, and an in-demand raverton remixer, Toy Selectah. After a whirlwind weekend in Mexico City, they asked the Monterrey native to create one of his specialised melds of their new album and Contramelt was born, switching the Weekend''s hi-life lines with new-school electro – and taking the man like Toy to a whole new audience. In his talk at the 2010 Red Bull Music Academy, Toy Selectah discusses Control Machete, Bersa Discos, cumbia, raverton, and more. opened this session, I started getting crazy because these guys were already where I like to be with as a music guy. in Mexico, the sound of cumbia started happening all the way down south to

      id = trevor-horn-buggles-in-the-bassbin
  author = 
   title = trevor-horn-buggles-in-the-bassbin
    date = 
keywords = Horn; Malcolm; New; Schmidt; Trevor; record; thing
 summary = But his massive success as one-hit wonder Buggles, "Video Killed The Radio Star," gave him entry to the big league and before long he was producing landmark records with ABC and Malcolm McLaren. Lots of people could play rock & roll on it, but I could read so I could work in dance bands and things like that. said, "Yes could do this song, it''s a hit song." "Oh, I don''t know about that." Anyway, 90125, we recorded all of the tracks except this one and they didn''t want to But at the time we didn''t because I just went into a folk record shop and said, "Have you got anything with a guy playing a guitar?" The poor person whose shop it was, "What kind of thing do you like?" And I said, "Blues!" "Ah, I''ve got some great blues." All I wanted was a noise, I just wanted a bit of noise.

      id = trevor-jackson-playgroup-tactics
  author = 
   title = trevor-jackson-playgroup-tactics
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Jackson; record
 summary = coming out." I had a white label of the record someone gave me, and I said, "I want to do a sleeve for you." And the next day I met him in the club with my portfolio. The I started doing hip-hop stuff like the Jungle Brothers, and De La Soul, Queen Latifah – this was before I was making music. time there was this whole scene going on in New York, and you could hear the cross-pollination, because you had the [Art of Noise, "Beatbox"] Art of Noise, "Beatbox") – I don''t know if I''ve got it here but you people probably know the record. They had good records, but I was looking at things like Def Jam and Tommy Boy in America and thinking, "Why can''t the British labels have the same kind of unique visual identity as one of these big American labels?" So, I started Bite It!

      id = tullio-de-piscopo
  author = 
   title = tullio-de-piscopo
    date = 
keywords = Nerattini; Pino; Piscopo; Tullio
 summary = Born in a family of drummers in Naples, Tullio De Piscopo learned the ropes of the business early before moving north to Milan, where he established himself as an in-demand session drummer, nicknamed "The Surgeon." His contributions over that period established him as a prolific drummer in Italy, keeping rhythm for local and international artists such as Chet Baker, Aldemaro Romero, Fausto Pappeti and Astor Piazzolla. Then at some point you had to realize that it wasn''t enough to stay in Naples, if you wanted to be a professional drummer there were two places back then: Milan or Rome. So, in just a few years you became THE drummer in Milan, the one they said to call if a track wasn''t going right, and even the "record fixer." "The track is called "Tic Tac," you have to follow the metronome." "Well, I can do it, if none of you play." It went like this, they were in a rush.

      id = tune-yards-lecture
  author = 
   title = tune-yards-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Member; Warren; like; tUnE; yArDs
 summary = I say it''s difficult because it''s trying to coordinate women around the world and being like, "I love your music and I think that this woman is doing stuff that you might..." That kind of logistics part of it, which Julian has been incredible at helping me with that, but it''s been tough to corral people, again, because I think we''re all into our own thing. It''s really great to hear about the platforming you''re doing for other people and the stuff that you''re really enthusiastic about, but I''d like to bring it back to you for a minute, if I may, and talk about your voice, and to talk about how you get such a lot of dynamic range and tonal range in a voice, from very, very big, and quite angry, to extremely soft, and how hard you have to work to get a voice to do that kind of thing.

      id = uestlove-phrenology-of-hip-hop
  author = 
   title = uestlove-phrenology-of-hip-hop
    date = 
keywords = Dre; Prince; Scott; audience; record; root; thing
 summary = If the music world has to be played like a game of chess, Questlove adopted some of his strategy from studying the most luminous African-American writers and critics from jazz to rap. hour, he was kind of ragging on me, but then we knew that we had sort of hip-hop in common by talking about different things, and I guess when he got I like the science of a record as opposed to, you know, people can listen to a of white people in the audience, you know?" Stuff like that is nonsense to me. know, if Jay-Z is here and Dr. Dre, Eminem, like people that are above the for Dre he was like, "Go, play something." I think the very first thing that am going to play just like that." That was the first time in a Roots show that

      id = umfang-lecture
  author = 
   title = umfang-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Hockin; Umfang; York; like
 summary = I feel like I had a lot of situations where people were like, "What are you playing?" ''Cos I was kind of playing harder techno or I was getting more into house I guess and it seemed like almost too much for most things in New York, it didn''t really make sense to play that in bars but I didn''t really know what else to do. The scene at that time in New York, in 2010 was really bad, it was a lot of tech house and I kind of hated every party I went to and it took me three years of living in New York to find people that I connected with and music that I liked.

      id = untold-tokyo-2014
  author = 
   title = untold-tokyo-2014
    date = 
keywords = Emma; Warren; untold
 summary = I think it''s kind of appropriate with you to play something new, seeing as you''re someone that always likes to push things forward. Yeah, I think this is my first record that''s got me playing a guitar. I think we''ve got a lot of music we want to play today. little bit of fake ID would get you into the club and the bouncer would be like, "You''re blatantly 16 but you obviously really want to be here, so come on in." I think it''s a shame. I mean R&S Records, obviously legendary label, but it lay dormant maybe for, I don''t know, ten years or something like that. A lot of producers that were there from, maybe not the first wave, but the second wave of dubstep producers, they started to write at slower BPM''s, almost a more, so going from 140 beats per minute down to 130

      id = valgeir-sigurosson
  author = 
   title = valgeir-sigurosson
    date = 
keywords = Gonsher; kind; music
 summary = Over the last two decades, Sigurðsson has cultivated projects by diverse international artists via the Bedroom Community label, which he co-founded with Ben Frost and Nico Muhly, and lent his expertise to the likes of Brian Eno, Sigur Rós and Feist as the founder of the Greenhouse Studios, one of Iceland''s top recording facilities. Yeah, that actually was a big part of why I think I was attracted to this film and this way of music-making, with people and with machines. So at the time, I was starting to understand that producing music in the studio would be a way to do things that wouldn''t limit one to be in a band, and just being in that role of the guitarist, or a specific corner, you know. But, I don''t know, it''s kind of where I come from, like this do-it-yourself way of thinking.

      id = van-dyke-parks
  author = 
   title = van-dyke-parks
    date = 
keywords = BENJI; Dyke; Parks; Skrillex; Van; music
 summary = His first arranging job was on The Jungle Book (his addition, "The Bare Necessities," scooped an Academy Award nomination); and back in the ''70s, he started the world''s first record-company video department at Warner Bros. In recent years, he''s woven his expressive arrangements around the music of Rufus Wainwright, St. Etienne, and Joanna Newsom, for whom he orchestrated her second album, 2006''s Ys. Parks'' music, by turns elegiac and psychedelic, stretches into the bygone age of a lost America and bursts into the wide-open plains of whatever he chooses to do next. In his 2013 Red Bull Music Academy, Parks delved into the art of arranging, the Smile sessions, his work with Skrillex, and much more. the first take – people look at music and they start playing together, and the great opportunities – somebody asked him, "What is American music?" He said, a lot of people said that, you know, had this album come out at the time, that You know, I think it was Zappa who said, "Talking about music is like dancing

      id = veronica-vasicka-lecture
  author = 
   title = veronica-vasicka-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Lauren; Martin; Vasicka; Veronica
 summary = I know it''s a personal endeavor, but when this music was recorded and heard in a certain form, early on, and now you''ve gone through the process of baking a tape, re-doing the artwork yourself, re-presenting it in this context, along with, eventually a large back catalog of other records quite like it, do you ever think about how you may or may not be presenting it in the way that it was intended? The popularity of this label, the sounds that have come from it, it''s actually, you know people use minimal wave very interestingly, as almost like a genre term? I think having these influences it just kind of shifts, if you just listen to Minimal Wave for, an entire year and then you make a techno record, it''s not going to sound like traditional techno.

      id = vince-degiorgio-canadian-club
  author = 
   title = vince-degiorgio-canadian-club
    date = 
keywords = Janson; Montreal; Toronto; Vince; record
 summary = Vince Degiorgio may have been around the music industry for as long as most of us can remember, but he still talks tunes with the infectious zeal of a kid in a record store. A disco DJ in Toronto clubs during the heyday of the genre in the ''70s, he spent his days spinning vinyl, working in a record store and gathering the skills which would later make him a hitmaker, songwriter, A&R guru and music publisher. I''m going to play a little piece of the first 12" single that I ever bought, which is called "Fighting on the Side of Love." This record was one of the few that combined people in Toronto and people in Montreal working together. every music business has a beginning and he had a much bigger hit with a song called "Something''s Up" as well, and some of the records that ended up getting made by

      id = vincent-moon
  author = 
   title = vincent-moon
    date = 
keywords = Moon; Ravens; basically
 summary = I feel like almost ten years, from 18 to 26, let''s say, while living in Paris, I would basically spend my entire time going out and checking stuff. Then, little by little, yeah, I guess I started to create that and work around this language of those long shots, those long shots unbroken, which would basically sort of create, and I would realize that later, would create, in the eye of the viewer, something like a type of relationship where I would not basically try to create this kind of very cut, very impressive type of film where you, from the first second, you''re like, "Whoa." You''re trapped in an intense way. The thing is that we always relate to, especially in the field that you work on, [unintelligible] as well, working, recording music from so called, actually, disappearing cultures, but again that''s a term I will like to come back on because I disagree a lot with this.

      id = volcov-reality-check
  author = 
   title = volcov-reality-check
    date = 
keywords = TORSTEN; VOLCOV
 summary = And so with all these people playing tracks on internet radio, charting it and stuff, at the end when the record is in the shop, it''s a bit of a problem ''cause people think, "Oh it''s old, I heard it all the time too much." So I think it affects the market, a small market, so more and more DJs should stop giving out CDs. It''s not a form of disrespect, we know people get excited about the tracks and want to play to friends, and give it to people, but it''s affecting our little scenes. I never had the fantasy, like, "Oh, this DJ''s played my song, so I''m going to sell fucking loads, I''m going to do great." I always thought, "Oh, it''s another record, another thing to listen to in the car, it''s cool, let''s make the next one." So, I''ve always kept my feet on the ground, even through my job and I''ve tried to do music in my spare time, produce when I have time.

      id = waajeed-voices-from-within
  author = 
   title = waajeed-voices-from-within
    date = 
keywords = Detroit; Laing; Toby; waajeed
 summary = I''ve learned a lot about the press, man – unless there''s any press people here, hi [laughter]… – like they come and they sit down with you to create a story, so whether that be about Baatin being homeless or crazy, or Jay Dee or Sa-Ra or whoever, they have it in their head that they want a story, so I just try to duck and dive. Yeah, man, that''s when you''re dealing with sales, not integrity, and I just want to make sure that at the end of the day I can look at myself in the mirror and have some respect for what I''ve done and what I''ve created and know that my records are not contributing to the genocide of my people… I just stay so far away from that that when I name my groups or projects, my sarcasm for that kind of energy is just playing it.

      id = wally-badarou-wally-street-journals
  author = 
   title = wally-badarou-wally-street-journals
    date = 
keywords = Badarou; Member; Wally; thing; work
 summary = In his lecture at the 2006 Red Bull Music Academy, Badarou breaks down some of the secrets behind working with Sly and Robbie while also offering a fly on the keyboard view of recording Pop Muzik with Robin Scott and explaining why he refused to sign that contract with the Godfather of Soul. The more I learn, and the more I get I''m growing to mastering my machines the more I realized that people like Ravel and Debussy were capable of doing the exact same thing, even better than what we do with synthesizers, just by using the right timbre from an oboe and a cello and a flute and a violin. Yes. I went into theater five years ago and I embraced that thing like, wow, and I thought it was that different from music. Nowadays, people believe that being a producer is to go into a studio with a drum machine or a computer and start programming things.

      id = werner-herzog-lecture
  author = 
   title = werner-herzog-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Herzog; Member; Todd; Werner; film; music
 summary = We''re here at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. We''re going to talk a lot about film, of course, and music and film, but I wanted to talk I guess at the beginning a tiny bit about art. The first clip that we wanted to play, and we''ll be playing a lot of clips throughout the evening to use that as a jumping off point to talk about things, is actually related to something that''s going on at the Met at the moment. This film, it seems like people were saying, "You need to have some sort of music that captures the island," or sorry, "the country, the nationality."

      id = win-butler-lecture
  author = 
   title = win-butler-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Burns; Butler; Montréal; New; like
 summary = I think anyone that saw our band play at that time would say that the recording is just horrible but live that was like our first hit song, kind of. And Howard Bilerman who ran that studio saw us play live and really liked the band and essentially gave us a chance to do a recording in his studio, which was just a two-inch tape machine and a new tech desk and basic tools that you can actually work with to make something sound the way the records that I love sound. actually, that song, we just plugged everything in and that was right after we''d come off tour for Funeral and so that was recorded way before the rest of the record because we had just been playing it live for two years and it was like, "OK, let''s just cut this while we know how to play it." We essentially just did two takes of the song and that''s the only song we ever did a tape edit.

      id = winston-hazel-toddla-t-and-dj-q
  author = 
   title = winston-hazel-toddla-t-and-dj-q
    date = 
keywords = Sheffield; Warren
 summary = The thing that hit me immediately was the fact that a lot of the sounds in the bashment that was being played at the time out there sounded right outdoors, without walls, and it kind of resonated with that Sheffield clang sound that we were used to going to bed to, from the industrial east of the city, with the drop hammers hammering out the steel at night, 24 hours a day, and it just felt like I''d landed back home again, but far away, in a very, very hot place. The dancing element of it came way before all of that, A Guy Called Gerald, in the early house sound of the UK, so 1981, ''82, ''83, ''84 the jazz funk all-dayer circuit, which was a national scene, would produce these events that went, would happen on a month or bi-monthly basis in places like Birmingham Powerhouse, Nottingham Rock City, what''s now the Abbeydale Picture House on Abbeydale Road, and various places in London.

      id = wolfgang-voigt-2018
  author = 
   title = wolfgang-voigt-2018
    date = 
keywords = Bächer; Cologne; Voigt; Wolfgang
 summary = I would like to play a Studio 1 track now, called "Yellow." Within those hugely conceptual works that you have created, is there any element of coincidence? What was fascinating with this one is, considering the time it was created, when minimalism became an international standard within the techno scene, there were certain styles that you would call artsy today, but back then I wouldn''t have looked at it in that way. This is why, in that sense, I can let it happen and it is now the first time in 25 years that I am focusing on just this project as my main artistic venture: Celebrating it, developing it and creating a real connection with the audience through my musical expression. What always fascinated me was, how much can I convert these things, confront people and ask new questions, and produce serious pop music [within the] subculture, without anyone laughing, without any irony?

      id = wolfgang-voigt-gas-amp-killer
  author = 
   title = wolfgang-voigt-gas-amp-killer
    date = 
keywords = Cologne; Schmidt; Voigt; Wolfgang; music
 summary = People like me, for example, from time to time feel very inspired by the surroundings combined by the idea – based on this historical tradition, on one side, and the personal impression you might have if you just walk through the forest and get inspired by these surroundings to explain your art, your music, your pictures, whatever. The one point why it''s so remarkable, why these strings are so much ahead, is to make clear the difference between this kind of music and, let''s say, classical ambient music – for example, like Brian Eno or Kraftwerk – because for me, it is very important to understand that the idea behind this is to imagine that the club and the forest is something that comes together. Five years later, of course, like the normal techno kid already was from the early ''90s, but it was a great moment, because a lot of interesting people and interesting inspiration came in and yeah, techno gets popular and pop in a good way, these days.

      id = wu-tang-lecture
  author = 
   title = wu-tang-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Blanco; Killah; RZA; Raekwon
 summary = In this session, hosted by Alvin Blanco, author of The Wu-Tang Clan And RZA, Raekwon, Ghostface Killah, Cappadonna, Allah Mathematics and Masta Killa sat down to discuss the making of Only Built 4 Cuban Linx, Wu slang, and more. You know what I mean, it wasn''t personal, like, "Yo, we come in a beef with So, I wasn''t even thinking that far yet, but I knew I had my own chamber, because everybody around me was like, "Yo, you rhyme this way, you got your own flavor." That''s how I even got the At that time, like I said, when I was making Cuban Linx, I representing that box of music at that time that we felt like shit is just Like Ghost''s neighborhood, of course you got the old school cats out there that really, n----s is knockout artists, but they smoke dust and all that shit.

      id = xavier-veilhan-lecture
  author = 
   title = xavier-veilhan-lecture
    date = 
keywords = Menu; Veilhan; Xavier; music; work
 summary = And while I think it would be absolutely terrible to re-listen to these shows today, it gave me the opportunity to meet many people who interested me, and to do interviews with artists who passed through Paris. It''s a very interesting time, and we do not talk much about it, but for people who produce things like Jay-Z to Katy Perry, there is no difference between the original and the thing that a guy in China or wherever will listen to. I have a very great friend, Nathalie Noënnec, who worked with these people, she took care of the artists, and so I was frequenting them, but the funny thing was that even at the time, when you were saying you were making art, people would be like, "So does painting work well for you? To come back to these differences between pop music and contemporary art, there are two things I would like to ask you about.

      id = yoshimio
  author = 
   title = yoshimio
    date = 
keywords = Hara; Masaaki; yoshimio
 summary = She began releasing music under the name Yoshimi P-We (now YoshimiO) in 1993, all the while collaborating across various projects, including the experimental ensemble OOIOO; the Saicobab quartet, which fuses Indian raga traditions with punk and electronic music; and with international musicians including Kim Gordon, Mats Gustafsson, Susie Ibarra and Robert Lowe. You''ve been doing projects like that the entire time, so we''re hoping you can look back over these and share some stories with us as we listen to some of the music. So we''re going to be playing some recordings here, and we''d like to hear your thoughts on them. I wonder if it''s okay to play one like this right off the bat [points to playlist on computer]. Like recording sounds from nature and using them to make music. I went overseas with OOIOO, like America, New York, and while there friends would say, "Let''s do something." Little YoshimiO collaborations, that bit by bit would become albums or live shows.

      id = young-guru-vibe-over-money
  author = 
   title = young-guru-vibe-over-money
    date = 
keywords = Chairman; Guru; Jay; Mao; New; York
 summary = In this brilliant lecture at the 2011 Red Bull Music Academy, Young Guru takes discusses his early years in Delaware, stealing records from his friends'' houses to scour for samples, and brings us right up to date with Jay Electronica, who recently revived Young Guru''s faith in hip-hop. want it to feel like an army is marching down the street." So I had this little sound that Just Blaze, who is another great producer we''ve worked with over the years, had put in a Memphis Bleek record. All of my experience of first getting up in front of an audience to play music I just made last night – most of you probably know that feeling, "I made this beat last night, I wonder what everybody''s gonna think about it." And having a representation of all 50 states in one place was a great thing as a DJ.

      id = yury-chernavsky
  author = 
   title = yury-chernavsky
    date = 
keywords = Boyarinov; Chernavsky; Muslim; Yury
 summary = His career began in the late ''60s as a jazz musician, playing the violin and saxophone as a member of various orchestras, including ensembles led by Russian jazz stars Oleg Lundstrem and Leonid Utyosov as well as Muslim Magomayev''s State Jazz Orchestra of Azerbaijan. OK, let me remind the audience that we are talking about Studio of Popular Music Record, AKA SPM Record, which Yury Chernavsky founded in 1985 and which was not only the first sound production studio in the USSR that cooperated with artists, but one of the first privately held companies in the country, because private entrepreneurship was only beginning to emerge and at that time it was referred to as cooperation. In our country the situation was absolutely different, because young people had only just discovered jazz music and started to play it.

      id = yuzo-koshiro
  author = 
   title = yuzo-koshiro
    date = 
keywords = Dwyer; Koshiro; music
 summary = Having discovered video games and their music at an early age, Koshiro learned to program using an NEC PC-8801 before landing his first jobs in the industry in early 1980s Tokyo, scoring the background music for games like Bosconian, Tower of Druaga and Sega''s 1987 hit Shinobi. He was born in Tokyo towards the end of the ''60s, grew up in the ''70s and by 1986, he was completely and utterly in love with Japanese video game music, which was a very new thing at the time, and decided that he wanted to become a video game composer. One thing I would love to ask you is, let''s talk a little bit briefly about this era before video games came to Japan and revolutionized the way young people up and down the country played in general.

      id = zinc-hardware-bingo
  author = 
   title = zinc-hardware-bingo
    date = 
keywords = Jenna; TORSTEN; ZINC; schmidt
 summary = His first non-drum & bass track, the now infamous "138 Trek," was played by UK garage kids, as well as breaks and broken beat DJs, breaking into the Top 30 and eventually leading to opening his own label, Bingo Beats. I started off by getting into the early drum & bass/jungle/acid house scene in London by listening to the pirate radio stations. A lot of drum & bass people were really supportive and said to me, "Don''t stop making drum & bass but it''s really good what you''re doing." So, I started doing breaks stuff then and I set up a label called Bingo. But I know from personal experience that if I''ve got a track that''s got a simple arrangement and I know it''s going to come in after 32 bars, I''m more likely to play that because if I''m in that sort of one hour bang, bang, bang thing.
